# Collaboration Cafe Notes - 15 January

## Check-in

Name + Pronouns + Name one habit you would like to build in 2025? + an emoji (if you'd like!: [https://emojipedia.org/](https://emojipedia.org/), see also: [https://openmoji.org/)](https://openmoji.org/))

*(Remember that this is a public document. These notes will be archived on The Turing Way repository, and will include your name and answer. You can use a pseudonym if you'd prefer. Use the 🤫 emoji if you would not like to be included in our public archive. You can always request to remove your information at asteele@turing.ac.uk.)*

* Richard J. Acton + + more regular writing
* Angus Hollands + he/him + better at "do it now if it takes \<10m" + 🪿
 * Ahhh yess! I just updated by notion and trying to keep up with the task list!
* Sarah Gibson (she,her)
* Jim Madge + he/him + Upgrading my Nextcloud instance without breaking it 🤦 + 🧶
* Pen-Yuan Hsing + he/they + (I'm afraid of commitment haha)
* Kathe Todd-Brown + she/they + daily reading The Literature practice
* Malvika + she/her + daily exercise!!!! + 💪🏽
* Arielle + she/her + I'm trying really hard to reduce my screen time on my phone 
* Léllé + she/her + I want to hydrate more and be more consistent with submitting applications at least 24h before the deadline
* Kirstie (and Mackenzie) + (both she/her) + I now cycle to work! Up a big hill! and currently I don't own a car.... but the goal is to not change once I do own one! + 🚲
 * We gotta hear how it is in the Bay!!!
* Danny, they/them, 
* Beth Duckles + she/her + walking more! 
* Alejandro + he/him + less screen, live the present
* Anne + she/her + habitual movement + deep-listening (to self and others!)
* Esther + she/her + I don't do voornemens in january! I would like to have some internet at some point!
* Liz Hare
* Shern Tee + he/him + journaling

## Advertise and promote your event or anything exciting you're working on. ✨

* Voices of JupyterHub report - JupyterHub + Turing Way + Organizational Mycology: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS](https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS)
* CZI - EOSS Grantee Community has been creating some resources based on community conversation for managing open projects. [https://github.com/eoss-om-communitycalls](https://github.com/eoss-om-communitycalls)  
* The British Ecological Society is looking for a couple authors to help *update/revise* their Guide to Reproducible Code: [https://www.britishecologicalsociety.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/BES-Guide-Reproducible-Code-2019.pdf](https://www.britishecologicalsociety.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/BES-Guide-Reproducible-Code-2019.pdf)
* Sorry this is unpaid work, but authors are offered free membership in the Society
* Authors don't start with a blank page, instead we're looking for authors to *update* the existing text
* Talk to Pen-Yuan Hsing ("Pen", email: penyuanhsing [at] posteo [dot] is) at today's Cafe or on Slack for details! 
* latest from my reproducibiliTea Journal club with fun data vizualisation stuff. [https://babraham-reproducibilitea-journal-club.gitlab.io/babraham-reproducibilitea-journal-club/](https://babraham-reproducibilitea-journal-club.gitlab.io/babraham-reproducibilitea-journal-club/)
* Personal project, I'm doing workshops on ecological principles in daily life in 2025 (first one is next Monday) - and there's an open resource (feel free to contribute!) [http://www.everydayflourishing.org/](http://www.everydayflourishing.org/) 

## Breakout rooms: Topic proposals and notes✨

While no sign-ups are required to attend Collaboration Cafe, if you have an idea for a topic you'd like to discuss in a breakout room, please add it below and put your name next to it. 

If you like one of the topics that are already suggested, please add your name next to that one. For more information about breakout rooms see [the description on GitHub]([https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/project%5C_management/online-collaboration-cafe.md#breakout-rooms)](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/project\_management/online-collaboration-cafe.md#breakout-rooms)).

* Work on possible submissions to the Metascience 2025 conference at University College London in mid-2025: [https://metascience.info/call-for-proposals/](https://metascience.info/call-for-proposals/)
 * Turing Way GitHub issue: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/workshops/issues/1](https://github.com/the-turing-way/workshops/issues/1)
 * Of the ideas, it seems the idea of improving representation of epistemic diversity might be more tractable.
   * Kirstie had the great idea of having researchers representing that diversity present! 
   * Malvika talked about values, leadership, accountability, and power. 
   * Richard - Elevating people of the diversity we feel under represented to answer questions like how does open research matter, in which ways, etc.?
   * Arielle - Make it two-way, so rather than e.g. a history professor saying what they want, it's two-way
   * notes here 👉🏼 -\> [https://github.com/the-turing-way/workshops/issues/1#issuecomment-2593395064](https://github.com/the-turing-way/workshops/issues/1#issuecomment-2593395064)
* Infrastructure WG - Work on error squashing so we can upgrade to Jupyter Book 2!
 * Notes (thanks Angus! \<3):
   * [https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1336#issuecomment-2593403732](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1336#issuecomment-2593403732)
* Accessibility guide discussion: Last 30 mins with the entire group
 * Emerging options
   * Separate guide
   * Embedded resources in other guides
   * Embedded in Guide for Ethics
   * Possible 'pathway'
 * Discussion is also around precedent for creation of new guides generally (i.e. questions of maintenance, feasibility, etc.)
   * What's been different about 
   * organically community has discussed proposals within: GitHub issues and discussions; Collab Cafe
   * moving forward -- request-for-comment (RFC) on:
     * governance issue(s) surfaced by "proposal to create Accessibility Guide"

## Link list✨

* [https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3783](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3783)
* [https://github.com/the-turing-way/workshops/issues/1#issuecomment-2593395064](https://github.com/the-turing-way/workshops/issues/1#issuecomment-2593395064) 
* [https://communityrule.info/](https://communityrule.info/)
* Public version of a governance agreement on the Hawaii project [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RruX6mIYRI2Csu3NMCOQLQrOSeFgt1YFAxVSvP5QH4Q/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RruX6mIYRI2Csu3NMCOQLQrOSeFgt1YFAxVSvP5QH4Q/edit?usp=sharing)
* [https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3957](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3957)
* [https://book.the-turing-way.org/index.html#different-pathways](https://book.the-turing-way.org/index.html#different-pathways)


