# Collaboration Cafe Notes - 17 July

## Check-in

Name + Pronouns + What is your favourite summertime (northern hemisphere!) activity? (it's summer-time here in the UK!) + an emoji (if you'd like!: [https://emojipedia.org/](https://emojipedia.org/), see also: [https://openmoji.org/)](https://openmoji.org/))

*(Remember that this is a public document. These notes will be archived on The Turing Way repository, and will include your name and answer. You can use a pseudonym if you'd prefer. Use the ðŸ¤« emoji if you would not like to be included in our public archive. You can always request to remove your information at asteele@turing.ac.uk.)*

* Anne + she/they + Swimming in any body of water always feels great!
* Ahmed + he/him + Going to the beach
* Malvika / she/her + Pick picnic mat and book and head to a park!
* Sebastian + he/him + Hiking, camping, cycling, and other outdoor activities 
* Arielle + she/her + hiking is a big one but I also love outdoor concerts as well
* Hao + he/him + camping / beach / bicycle-based bakery tour (we are calling it "Philly Croissawn Jawn")
* Jim + he/him + Cycling (or staying inside in the coolðŸ§Š)

### Advertise and promote your event or anything exciting you're working on. âœ¨

* N/A

### Breakout rooms: Topic proposals and notesâœ¨ 

While no sign-ups are required to attend Collaboration Cafe, if you have an idea for a topic you'd like to discuss in a breakout room, please add it below and put your name next to it. 

If you like one of the topics that are already suggested, please add your name next to that one. For more information about breakout rooms see [the description on GitHub]([https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/project\_management/online-collaboration-cafe.md#breakout-rooms)](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/project\_management/online-collaboration-cafe.md#breakout-rooms)).

Please add a ðŸ¤« emoji next to any line that you would not like to be included in the archive on Github

* Main room
      * Hour 1: Introducing people to The Turing Way
      * Hour 2: Reviewing the Community Forum
* Practitioners Hub
* Research Leadership
* Community Forum: [https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-forum-July-2024](https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-forum-July-2024)
      * Add a script for chairs for housekeeping (reuse the Fireside chat)
      * Update the slide deck to include, so the chairs don't skip it
      * Add info if someone needs to request editing out th text and video (like contact via turingway email, or ping Anne)
      * Recorded data: GDPR 
* Checks before the call
      * Framapad: is the stable link (don't use zoom to promote the info)
      * Add green room invite
* Do we want to use Evetbrite?
      * It was closed before the event - human error!
      * It was not an infra problem
      * Let's stay with Eventbrite
      * Send reminder for speakers 
* Checks for 24 hours before, 1 hour before?
      * What should be done!
* WG presentation?
      * We do need a representative at the Community Forum - but do we need a chair to report?
      * Can someone else report?
      * Roles of WG members
      * How early should we remind them?
* CoC discussions
      * fewer people worried about enforcement
      * More people were unsure what is "bad enough" to  report
* Chatty coworking 

##  Link listâœ¨ 

* N/A
