# Collaboration Cafe Notes - 18 September

## Check-in

Name + Pronouns + Share a favorite memory from Book Dash (and/or) a question you have about joining! + an emoji (if you'd like!: [https://emojipedia.org/](https://emojipedia.org/), see also: [https://openmoji.org/)](https://openmoji.org/))

*(Remember that this is a public document. These notes will be archived on The Turing Way repository, and will include your name and answer. You can use a pseudonym if you'd prefer. Use the ðŸ¤« emoji if you would not like to be included in our public archive. You can always request to remove your information at asteele@turing.ac.uk.)*

* Anne + she/any + also show \& tell - and the community share-outs at the end are always a huge celebration!
* Vicky (she/her) + I always love the show and tell sessions 
* Lelle (she/her) + looking forward to my first BookDash !
* Jen she/her // That moment when all the checks pass on a PR
* Arielle + she/her + all the community share out sessions are my favourites!
* ZoÃ« Turner (she/her) + I found out about running and good footwear at the last cafe - lovely to just chat and connect
* AndrÃ©s + (he/him) + first time, thus interested to learn more
* Kirstie W + she/her + I love the share outs at the end of the week - a couple of times we've had mums or best friends join to celebrate with us! Love it!!
* Seun Olufemi (he/him) + I have learned about it, wanted to work actively on with it 
* Beth Duckles (she/her) + excited to learn! 
* Precious(she/her) + first time 
* Liz, she/her, working with Anne and Andrea Sanchez-Tapia on defining accessibility and the poilcy
* Emma + she/her + meeting lots of new folks and getting to work with them on cool things
* Neha, she/her + I participated in the November 2020 Book Dash (on the Style Guide and Maintaining Consistency chapters) which was a great experience + I want to propose a 'project' (not exactly a chapter, though it could eventually go into the book) for the Book Dash + help out with the Dutch hub / contribute as a mentor if I can.

### Advertise and promote your event or anything exciting you're working on. âœ¨

* Org Mycology is working on the Voices of Jupyter Project and will be working with the Turing Way to conduct some research in the next few months! 
    * Link to [github info on the Voices of Jupyter Project]([https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS)](https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS))
*  Serpentine's exhibit with Holly Herndon and Mat Dryhurst *The Call* opens in London on 4 October for rolks based in the UK! [https://www.serpentinegalleries.org/whats-on/holly-herndon-mat-dryhurst-the-call/](https://www.serpentinegalleries.org/whats-on/holly-herndon-mat-dryhurst-the-call/)
* Showcase of the 'Electronic Life' project at Tate Late, 4th October @ Tate Britain (website needs updating [https://electroniclife.ai/)](https://electroniclife.ai/))
* Currently building BON (Bioinformatics Outreach Nigeria) for help promote open science principles amongst Bioinformaticians, I am a Resident Fellow with the OLS trying to learn how to do that better. 

### Breakout rooms: Topic proposals and notesâœ¨ 

While no sign-ups are required to attend Collaboration Cafe, if you have an idea for a topic you'd like to discuss in a breakout room, please add it below and put your name next to it. 

If you like one of the topics that are already suggested, please add your name next to that one. For more information about breakout rooms see [the description on GitHub]([https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/project\_management/online-collaboration-cafe.md#breakout-rooms)](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/main/project\_management/online-collaboration-cafe.md#breakout-rooms)).

Please add a ðŸ¤« emoji next to any line that you would not like to be included in the archive on Github

* Main Room
    * **HOUR 1: Book Dash Q\&A **
        * Summary of Book Dash: Bi-annual contribution event for The Turing Way community
        * Q: What kind of content already exists? What gaps exists?
            * A (AB): We have 5 guides currently. Some places to start with that is by looking at the book itself. If you have ideas on what you want to put in.
            * A (EK): Apply with a good idea. You'll chat with others in the planning committee. We can work with you to guide your idea into a space which is good for you.
            * A (JD): It's such a nice time to be in the same digital space, just coming on the first day and hearing about what other people are working on, jumping into practice editing/reviewing just to get started 
            * A (LH): You can also narrow down by loooking at guides related to your potential contribution
        * Q: Are there open science topics that are not currently covered in the guides, particularly ones related to developing communities? Can this be brought to different communities with different experiences?
            * A (EK): Updating chapters and making additions to chapters are super valuable. Having different perspectives on these topics is brilliant!
            * A (LH): This sounds like something that is very important for inclusion and access related work. 
            * A (ALS): Ask away on the ask-away chennel
            * PAUSE EVERYTHING - LIVE MERGE!
        * Q: Idea and suggestions for a project idea, an image gallery for scriberia?
            * A (LH): I hope this can be done in a way that's creen reader accessible so the alt text can be searched. Shiny is generally not accesible
            * A (AB): This will be great to get more feedback from more people in the community. And also, don't forget to be realistic about what is possible to get done throughout the week.
            * A (ZT): There is still an open task on the issue about web accessibility in the book about checking for text alternatives for non-text content [https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/1597](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/1597)
            * A (EK): At the Book Dash, we have kicked off the week with a session to integrate the images that currently exist.
        * Q: Do you have to attend all the sessions available?
            * A (AB): That's physically impossible! We have many people facilitating sessions at different times.
            * A (EK): At least 1 or 2 sessions per day is what we ask for.
            * A (KW): There are two community share-outs - please share out the invites: colleauges and others welcome. 
        * Q: How often are reference links checked?
            * A (AB): It is currently a manual process. Checking broken links is also a great first contribution to the Book: making a bug report and 
            * A (ZT):  There is a GitHub action for checking links but I've never used it. [https://github.com/marketplace/actions/link-check-action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/link-check-action)
    * **HOUR 2: Voices of Jupyter Project**
        * Organisational mycology: [https://astropy-report.orgmycology.com/](https://astropy-report.orgmycology.com/)
        * Project submission: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS?tab=readme-ov-file](https://github.com/the-turing-way/jupyterhub-orgmyc-EOSS?tab=readme-ov-file)
        * CZI open source funding: [https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/)
        * NASA: Openscapes: [https://openscapes.org/blog/2024-01-18-agu-talk-2023/](https://openscapes.org/blog/2024-01-18-agu-talk-2023/)
* Missing Data Handling Chapter
* Book Dash co-working: We had Sinem sharing some details of the Meme workshop :) 
* Quiet coworking

##  Link listâœ¨ 

* N/A