# The Turing Way - Core Project Management Meetings 24 January

## Bi-weekly meetings (with some exceptions)

**Participants** 
This call is joined by *The Turing Way* Core Staff:

* Kirstie Whitaker
* Malvika Sharan 
* Alexandra Araujo Alvarez 
* Arielle Bennett 

## Agenda

Review together the agenda and agree on priorities and timings.  

:hourglass_flowing_sand: **Timing:** Total 90 min

| Duration | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| Start | ðŸ‘‹ Welcome |
| 05 mins | Check in   |
| 20 mins | Infrastructure WG   
| 10 mins | TTW Community Call Agenda (15 Feb)
| 20 min | Collaborations Workshop (TPS & TTW Participation) 
| 10 min | CZI Localisation Proposal / Jupyterhub updates
| 20 mins | Other
5 mins | Wrap up  

## Actions from the meeting:
- [ ] (AAA): update the Domain request with all the proposal - https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3266
- [ ] (MS) New Working Group - Communications WG â€”> MS suggested to open an Expression of interest to understand and explain what is needed to create this wg, who has capacity to do it? MS will think about it and will bring an ask for a proposal of Expression of interest to the next meeting
- [X] (AAA) Ask the infrastructure wg to open an issue for guidance to maintain a light-weight repo - (https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3516)
- [ ] (ALS/AAA) Start an issue with "Best design of a working group repo, how we want them to be structured, what is needed, easy templates of the minimum they require to facilitate contributions
- [ ] (ALS/AAA) best design to align the community to navigate on the different repos (issue)
- [ ] (AAA) Funneling people, who is going to do this work? (Action to April), Governance is the priority (Next Meeting)

## Infrastructure WG

### Buy a URL for The Turing Way 

Documentation here: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3266

#### Reasons to buy the URL and level of importance:
- The domain name is given by netlify. If we swap to readthedocs, the URL will find a broken webpage. 
- If we buy one, we will redirect traffic from one to another url. While we could redirect from netlify to readthedocs, it is much better to type theturingway.org (or the preferable domain). We don't need to rely on netlify or readthedocs.
- If in the future if there's another platform to deploy, the change will be easier and our URL name will be consistent
- Proposed planning/design work (developed by Jim):
    - Domain structure:
        - root - the-turing-way.org (redirects to start page)
        - startpage - start.the-turing-way.org (based ond [this](https://the-turing-way.start.page/)?)
        - book - book.the-turing-way.org
        - calendar - cal.the-turing-way.org (who and how would this be maintained / automated?) 
        - etc.
        - SSL certs (if we need to do that ourselves) - Let's Encrypt

#### Pain points:
- Maintainance ownership: (as per Jim contribution) "It is worth thinking about bus factor when we plan how to purchase the domain name and manage DNS. We don't want to have to require a particular person to make any changes or fix problems.I like the idea of the Infrastructure WG being responsible."
- Budget holder / Credit card details: shouldn't this be paid by The Alan Turing? If not, it would be safe to share credentials. Ideas?
    - theturingway.org is Â£11.01 first year, Â£19.97 after (on godaddy)
    - Â£5.92 on namecheap
- Identify and decide the URL name, who and how is this decided?
    - Examples: theturingway.org / theturingway.io 

### Notes: 
MS: 
- Old conversation, there's a strong demand from the community. 
- Huge benefit to have something localise in a space
KW:
- 2022/23 there was a lot of general discussions framed around "the community wants this" without an actual proposal  ---> Encourage working groups to prepare proper request, to have more pathways to make decisions and improve transparent decision making
- The benefits of saying yes are very high, happy to approve the request but not without a proper request
- Simple proposal, remove WIP, add DPAP, and get the WG to approve the official request. Full issue, with all the info and how the challenges are going to be addressed. 
    - Name: suggestions of what is available 
    - Budget: on the RPM / KW credit card details
    - DPAP: (Kit support)
    - Maintenance:
    - Reputational problem risk: internally at the Turing Institute
    - Extendable stages: acknowledge these stages and owners
- MS/KW can participate in all three levels, making decisions in TTWPM meetings makes it more like leadership holds all the power, they want to share publicly this decisions on Github
- Better branding and visibility
    - Infrastructure WG might be: theturingway.org/book
- https://mathison.turing.ac.uk/page/2910?SearchId=380105 --> Microsite widelines
- Extendable stages should be included, to include all the work from the TTW in the future



### Splitting the repo WIP

Documentation on the proposal: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3352

#### Infrastructure reasons:
- Smaller repositories (faster clones, faster git operations(?))
- Greater clarity on purpose for each repository, what information belongs where
- More easily able to set appropriate permissions, requirements, CI for each repository
- Better navigability (easier to find what you are looking for)

#### Actions in progress 
- (On Ale) Build a roadmap for the repo transition: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3502 / [use this knowledge map](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVN41KSE0=/) - *no progress yet*
- (On Danny) Splitting test: open a Newsletters repo (done)
- (On Ale and Anne): confirm that all current repos have a README file
- (On Ale and Jim): for the newsletter repo, automate monthly issues and send alerts to selected repos/working groups (with Jim support on 25/1)

Next steps and comments:
- When would you like to see this to happen?
- (A)Best design of the working group, how we want them to be structured
- (A) best design to align the community to navigate on the different repos
- Info for Sarah / Infrastructure WG: No PDF, side of files, strategies to keep repo's light, open an issue with all tasks that could be done
- TTW Log: internal collaborative way before communicating to the broader community. the cois this a WIP while we have everything linked on Github https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JS7ZyrXfYykecG48XsrbZjm_U2VHhsoMvz9ug4EKN5s/edit#heading=h.hgdjzummq0dx
- All WG notes should go to and issues should be immediately archived in Github and decisions as issues (ADD this into the working groups README)
- (A) Write the differences between project logs, Malvika will share some examples for Ale  ---> log characteristics
- Share and archive these meeting notes? Sensitive information. Short logs up (pilot for the next 6 months, on September the long ones)

## Turing Way Community Call - 15 Feb

Planning document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ioop8I6TB6oYtFATxJcvk4ghthvS2FmJ0cVVnMHmv7M/edit#heading=h.dgrp5euu0sdh  ---> should this be an issue? Yes, but the phrasing of the wordings would be done internally through the TTW Project log.

#### WG confirmations by 23 January:
- Translation and localisation
- Accessibility
- Book Dash (Book Dash dates: 13-17 May): Yes

Next planned activities: https://github.com/the-turing-way/2024-rcm-rpm-tasks/issues/12

- [x] Promote at Turing internal calendar - @AlexandraAAJ
- [ ] Promote in Turing slack - @aleesteele
- [ ] Promote on TTW social media - @aleesteele
- [x] Promote in Turing newsletters - @AlexandraAAJ
- [ ] Slide deck: Introduction to The Turing Way: Governance and Transparency (@KirstieJane_)
- [ ] MS to review [[WIP] Theory and Practice of Working Groups - Community Handbook PR](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/pull/3499) before sending it to KW
- [ ] Repo to be ADDED TOMORRow.... Three level of decision making

Notes:
- Open the Github issue with the planning stages
- Communicate to the other working groups that we have filled and that e
- Add this in the TTW Newsletter (Jan)
-
-
-

## Collab Workshop: TPS/TTW Participation and Budget 

https://www.software.ac.uk/workshop/collaborations-workshop-2024-cw24
CW24 will take place as a hybrid event. The in person aspect will be hosted at Scarman, Warwick Conferences.
Dates: 
30 April 2024 | 2 May 2024
* The following tickets are available:
Collaborations Workshop 2024: Remote [Complete] - 75 GBP
Collaborations Workshop 2024: In-person [Complete] - 300 GBP
Collaborations Workshop 2024: In-person Day 1 only - 150 GBP
Collaborations Workshop 2024: In-person Day 2 only - 150 GBP
Collaborations Workshop 2024: In-person Hack Day only - 60 GBP
Collaborations Workshop 2024: In-person Workshop Dinner only - 50 GBP
* The deadline to register to participate in-person is Friday, 5 April 2024. The deadline to register to participate remotely is Thursday, 11 April 2024.

Questions:
* How many people should join and how can we afford it? Budget holders    
    * [Proposal] SPA (Emma's project): Emma, Malvika, Kirstie, Anne participation
* [Proposal] RCM/TPS members ---> 
* Can we link this to TTW 5 year anniversary and advocate for budget to include a dinner for the team joining in person? Lack of Team retreats

Notes:
- 3 nights x Â£150 = Â£450 / Â£600 pp (incl travel and accommodation)
- Approve to use Â£10,000 from the TTW Book Dash
- Emma's project could cover: 2-3 people
- Strategic Celebration of The Turing Way, because they had major influence in the project
- (A) Propose/produce a budget for, 1) people travel and accommodation and 2) dinner/drinks for a large number of people
- Brainstorm the names of people that we would like to invite: TTW Project log (let us know if you need budget to join the workshop)
- (A) Is CW offering reduced registration for lightning talks/invited speakers? Ale could request this info to Patricia. 
    - Answer from Patricia: "Hi Alexandra - thanks for being in touch. We don't offer reduced registration for lightning talk speaker or mini-workshop facilitators. People can apply for financial assistance to make a case to cover some of their costs - how much we can support will depend on the number of applications we get and our budget at that point. We're getting to the end of a funding grant, so there might be not as much room as we might like. Full registration will include conference dinner on day 1 and likely a buffet on day 2 in case this helps with your planning. Happy to have a call once you know more or connect you up to the venue to ensure whatever you have in mind actually works :slightly_smiling_face:
Best,"


## CZI Localisation Proposal and Jupyterhub project

### CZI Localisation Proposal
- Internal meeting happening on Thursday 25 January at 16:00. Attendees?
- Anything needed from us?

Notes
-
-
-
-
-

### CZI Jupyter Hub status
- Waiting for Darren to give us the final Turing's approval - AB to chase
- AB and AAA are working on the Collaboration agreement
- Next meeting with Sumana will be scheduled from 5 Feb
- Chris update will be done once we receive the Turing's approva

Notes
-
-
-
-
-

## Other

### TTW Podcast 

To celebrate our 5 years, we could launch a set of podcasts describing and making more accessible some of our chapters. 
- Code for thought: https://codeforthought.buzzsprout.com/
- Chaoss Podcast: https://podcast.chaoss.community/
- is it an idea worth persuing during 2024? Project under research (budget and timewise)

Notes
-
-
-
-
-

### Review of the decision log or RCM/RPM for documentation

Based on the comments received about RCM/RPM Github Project Tracker (https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/projects/3/views/3), ALS and AAA have opened a Decision-log of RCM/RPM for documentation
https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3500

Notes:
- Is this the right way to document and learn how to direct the issues RCM/RPM encounter?
- Check the events section for feedback
-
-
-
-
### TTW Practitioners Hub

It would be great to have your comments about the meta case study or review date: https://docs.google.com/document/d/16Lg-B9wz7gQaBxK0qd4ifMY7z9ZO9f-d_A9nmgkn9aE/edit

Event on the 6 March: planning document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/10RIKbXL2pWhLE6tWFBZKo3puxAo6gMDO3hyOsqLEIJY/edit

Notes
- Send it to Ann for KW to do list
- No concerns
- KW is not available from 10:00 - 12:00 / Collab cafe that day, are 
-
### Code of Conduct - Didn't cover this, take to next meeting
Can we find some time to review the changes made on CoC after some discussions during coworking/collab cafe last year?
The main updates are adding the scope and section for the Turing employees.
https://github.com/the-turing-way/.github/pull/3

Notes:
- Who should approve these changes?
- When could we expect this to be approved? 
