# The Turing Way - Core Project Management Meetings 21 March 2024

## Bi-weekly meetings (with some exceptions)

**Participants** 
This call is joined by *The Turing Way* Core Staff:

* Kirstie Whitaker
* Malvika Sharan - Apologies. 
* Alexandra Araujo Alvarez 
* Arielle Bennett 

## Agenda

Review together the agenda and agree on priorities and timings.  

:hourglass_flowing_sand: **Timing:** Total 90 min

| Duration | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| Start | ðŸ‘‹ Welcome |
| 05 mins | Check in   |
| 20 mins | Community Call Prep (23 April)   
| 10 mins | Collaborations Workshop Logistics 
| 10 min | The Turing Way URL
| 10 mins | Anonimysed data from community meetings
| 10 mins | Practitioners hub - Ale's transition from RPM to SRCM
| 10 min | Other - Backlog (Code of Conduct, Jupyterhub)
5 mins | Wrap up  

---------

Successful actions:
- SRCM for BridgeAI and The Turing Way finished -->AAA has been appointed. Transition should start on 01 April 
- Good progress about the Senior Researcher for Open Practices

### Meeting Summary Actions: (To be added after the meeting)
- [x] [Open an issue to decide the new name of the "The Turing Way Community Call" (AAA)](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3579) - blurb
- [x] [Open an issue to plan the 23rd of April "The Turing Way Community Call"](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3582) (AAA)
- [ ] Buy the tickets for the Collaborations Workshop, include AB 
- [ ] By the 23 April (The Turing Community Call) launch an Expression of interest to invite community members to take part on URL Comms plan and other comms activities / KW to send an email to clarify the process and responsibilities of the WG
- [ ] [Data Protection](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3534): ask Anne to suggest options for people to know community call notes (including names) will be uploaded on Github and that they have the option to add the emoji or not add their notes if they don't want to
- [ ] Ale's transition from RPM to SRCM, schedule transition meetings


## Community Call - Prep
[2024 Community Calls](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3528)
- Review plan, [feedback from previous session](https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/TTW-community-call-15Feb)
- Should the name change?
- Open registration?


Notes:
- Who didn't like the Town Hall?
- KW would like to re-enter the name "The Turing Way Town Hall"
- AB goes for Community Forum or "The Turing Way Open Community Forum"
- Not Fireside chats
- The Community will decide the name with a blurb of the goal of the meeting
- Options:
    - _The Turing Way_ Forum
    - _The Turing Way_ Town Hall
    - _The Turing Way_ Community Call
- Check with Malvika the option names (action AAA)

Blurb: Add it in the issue (AAA)
In 2024, we are commencing a series of open [INSERT NAME HERE] that bring together any member of *The Turing Way* community - including people who have not yet contributed to the project!
Modelled off a political [town hall event](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Town_hall_meeting) these online sessions are an opportunity to better understand activities across the project and how decisions are made.
Our aim is to leverage the expertise across our community and we explicitly invite you to review our processes and recommend improvements.
We expect that the calls will be a mix of celebration, feedback, and opportunities to build connections with other organisations and initiatives around the world. 

Currently, this call is hosted in English. This call will be recorded for use by participants, and will use Zoom's automatic captioning. This call may also involve live discussion, screen-sharing, and other interactive activities that may be internet bandwidth-intensive. Slides will be shared after the call. A shared document will be used for collaborative note-taking, capturing feedback and learning. 

Notes:
- Keep the top issue regularly up-to-dated / Include this discussion on the Community name
- [AAA] Open a new issue to review the title of the Community Call (link the new issue to the planning steps https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3528) - 
- Give the community till next Wednesday to add it in their calendars
- Agenda: Create an issue with the 23 April agenda [AAA]
    - Infrastructure WG
    - Practitioners Hub WG (Share the EoI to join the 2nd cohort)
    - 5 Year Celebration & Book Dash 
    - Governance: When the WG chairs are going to meet (invitations)
- Improvement actions:
    - Registration and name
    - Promotion
    - Timing

## Collab Workshop
[TTW mini-workshop at the Collaborations workshop, confirmed](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3551) -->
The session has been tentatively scheduled for CW24 Day 2: Wednesday, 1 May 2024, 14:40 - 15:40 BST (13:40 - 14:40 UTC; 60 minutes), you can view the full agenda here: https://www.software.ac.uk/cw24-agenda

- Confirm and buy travel and hotel: 
- Emma is only available to attend Day 1:30 April
- Ale will attend 2 days
  
Notes:
- KW will email Collab Cafe to change our mini-workshop as there is an overlap: Done
- AB to attend, AAA to include in budget
-
-


## The Turing Way URL

https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3266
- Should comms align the content
- infrastructure wg open to support on DNS architecture

It's ready: 
https://the-turing-way.start.page/
https://book.the-turing-way.org/


Notes:
- Time-sensitivity of the Comms plan
- Community Call to soft launch (the comms plan?)
- Launch an Expression of interest to have a Comms Working group with the task of first preparing the website Comms Plan
    - Establish the responsibilities of the Core Staff 
    - Community Manager is accountable for this delivery
- Review the plan with MS
- [KW] will send an email to MS to discuss this idea
-
-
-
-

## Anonymised info from core team meetings? 

https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3534
- Ways of archiving data without compromising our community

Notes:
- Ask ALS for proposals
  - Kirstie keen to not anonymise the notes (comment in slack somewhere, AAA to find)
- People should have very clear understanding that the notes are going to be added on Github
  - Add to chair's guidance
-


## TTW Practitioners Hub - Ale's Transition 

- What would you like to maintain in my new role? 
- Priorities for the first 3 months?
Schedule transition Meetings:
- Arielle, Malvika, Kirstie and Anne (The Turing Way) - RACI: 
    - Working groups, 
    - PM meetings, 
- Malvika, Kirstie, Nico, Dominica and Ale (BridgeAI tasks/priorities) - Agree the first 3-months goals


## Other - Not covered in this meeting --> to be discussed in the next meeting

Backlog from last meeting. 

- Jupyterhub
- Code of conduct, form and 
