# The Turing Way - Core Project Management Meetings 12 February 2024

## Bi-weekly meetings (with some exceptions)

**Meeting notes from 2024, will be archived in the [PM Core team meeting notes at the governance folder](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/tree/main/governance/pm-core-meeting-notes)**

**Participants** 
This call is joined by *The Turing Way* Core Staff:

* Kirstie Whitaker
* Malvika Sharan 
* Alexandra Araujo Alvarez 
* Arielle Bennett 

## Agenda

Review together the agenda and agree on priorities and timings.  

:hourglass_flowing_sand: **Timing:** Total 90 min

| Duration | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| Start | ðŸ‘‹ Welcome |
| 05 mins | Check in   |
| 10 mins | Community Call Prep (15 Feb)   
| 20 mins | 5th Anniversary: Collaborations Workshop + other ideas 
| 10 min | CZI Localisation Proposal / Jupyterhub updates
| 10 mins | Code of Conduct 
| 10 mins | Practitioners hub - Event 6 March
| 10 min | Other - Backlog
5 mins | Wrap up  

---------

## Successful actions Jan-Feb:
- Job ad open for internal applications for the SRCM for BridgeAI and The Turing Way. 
- Good progress about the Senior Researcher for Open Practices.

### Meeting Summary Actions:
- [ ] Open issue with 2024 Community Calls (AAA)
- [ ] Liaise with CETAS team who they worked with to print CETAS leaflets, costs and timelines (AAA / AB)
- [ ] Review which budget is available to print TTW merch, Anniversary stickers and other (AAA)
- [ ] Apply for a mini-workshop at the Collaborations workshop, led by KW (KW)
- [ ] Jupyterhub project, chase Darren Grey and finish the Collaboration agreement (AB/AAA)
- [ ] Jupyterhub project, liaise with Chris to open the project to the Jupyter community (KW)
- [ ] CoC, KW will review the documentation. Docs will be sent to AH (MS/KW)
- [ ] TTWPH: apply KW comments on the meta case study (MS)

## Community Call Prep - 15 Feb

Github planning doc: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3510
Framapad Agenda: https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/TTW-community-call-15Feb

Planning actions: 
- [x] Make registration page: 
- [x] Promote at Turing internal calendar - @AlexandraAAJ
- [x] Promote in Turing slack - @aleesteele
- [x] Promote on TTW social media - @aleesteele
- [x] Promote in Turing newsletters - @AlexandraAAJ
- [ ] Slide deck: Introduction to The Turing Way: Governance and Transparency (@KirstieJane_)
- [ ] Send a reminder to the 3 working groups about their 5-min presentation

### Agree on next Community Calls dates

* Options April/May:
- [x] Tuesday 23 April (15:00 - 16:30)  ---> CHOSEN!
- [ ] Thursday 23 May (15:00 - 16:30)

* Options July / Summer:
- [x] Thursday 11 July (15:00 - 16:30)/ Move the infrastructure wg meeting ---> CHOSEN

* Options Sept/Oct:
- [ ] Thursday 19 Sept (15:00 - 16:30)
- [x] Thursday 03 Oct (15:00 - 16:30) ---> CHOSEN
- [ ] Thursday 17 Oct (15:00 - 16:30)

* Options Dec:
- [x] Thursday 12 Dec (15:00 - 16:30) ---> Move the infrastructure wg meeting / CHOSEN

Notes:
- Promote it at The Turing Slack - it hasn't reached enough people
- LinkdIn usage: have we decided to use it


## 5th Anniversary Celebrations

### Collaborations Workshop (TPS/TTW Participation)

https://www.software.ac.uk/workshop/collaborations-workshop-2024-cw24
CW24 will take place as a hybrid event. The in person aspect will be hosted at Scarman, Warwick Conferences.
Dates: 
30 April 2024 | 2 May 2024

Actions
- [ ] Check the list of potential attendees: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ET0Uik3HZEnCEGkvmv8zq3MGG-vbyp3eQXVjX1MUyuE/edit
- [ ] SPA budget to cover 4 in-person attendees: define team members 
- [X] Costs for hosting a dinner/drinks / Patricia Herterich

Notes:
- KW on holiday from the 2 May. Kirstie could put on a workshop about TTW, celebrating the 5 years of The Turing Way ---> focused on TPS members
- MS will not be able to join the Collaborations Workshop
- Submission plan for TTW workshop, Professionalising data science roles
- Malvika pinged on TPS about the minitalks on 25 Jan
- Decision: not hosting dinner/drinks in the end, too much other work going on, focus on other avenues for the 5-year celebration
- Print out a leaflet from TTW: RCM paper - highlighting the main take aways, Practitioners Hub case studies, Professionalising data science roles 
- Check with CETAS team to check how much and who they chosen (Action to AAA and AB): layout and printing --> get costs and timelines
- We will review the quotes and check if we can do it right and on time


### How do you want to celebrate the 5th year of The Turing Way

Github issue: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3518

Next actions:
* Budget donation from SPA (Emma's project) for Anniversary merch (Â£3000): tote bags, stickers, cards  ----> Check this with Matt (Ale)
* TTW Podcast: we don't have the costs yet but SPA is considering Â£5000 for an episode. With that budget, we could include more chapters of TTW book
* Can we ask the community to support us with an Anniverysary new design (stickers/tote bags). We need to spend the money by 10 March ---> Check with Anne if she could mock some design. 
* Liaise with Book Dash working group about new activity(ies) tha would be part of the Book Dash

Notes:
- Ale will check with Matt if we can spend the budget with merch
- Anne could mock some 5 year sticker design
-

## CZI Localisation Proposal
- Internal meeting happening on Thursday 25 January at 16:00. Attendees?
- Anything needed from us?

Notes
- They probably want to open up a call soon
- Good conversation, we flag concerns 
- No actions on us at the moment
- There would be one open call in April, from the Digital Infrastructure Insights Fund
- The Translation and Localisation proposal is great, keep an eye on other funds


## CZI Jupyter Hub status
- Waiting for Darren to give us the final Turing's approval - AB to chase
- AB and AAA are working on the Collaboration agreement
- Sumana will not be working with us for this project
- KW will open up the project to the community (with CH) to ask for other appropriate organisations facilitating this job, get their perspectives
- Chris update will be done once we receive the Turing's approval

Notes
- Other organisations we could contact> https://www.rit.edu/directory/mpnopen-michael-nolan
- Action on KW to coordinate with Chris from Thursday 15 Feb
- AB has pinged Darren but now answer yet. She has chased again
- 
-

## Code of Conduct 
Can we find some time to review the changes made on CoC after some discussions during coworking/collab cafe last year?
The main updates are adding the scope and section for the Turing employees.
https://github.com/the-turing-way/.github/pull/3

Notes:
- Who should approve these changes?
- When could we expect this to be approved? 

Next meeting agenda
- Code of conduct
- Communications Working group, Expression of interest

Notes:
- (AAA) Send Github to Ann, for KW's review, check on the employment wording 
- More explicit support for small inputs, where to store them. 
-
-

## TTW Practitioners Hub

It would be great to have your comments about the meta case study or review date: https://docs.google.com/document/d/16Lg-B9wz7gQaBxK0qd4ifMY7z9ZO9f-d_A9nmgkn9aE/edit

Agenda for the event on 6 March:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tmuvE09wixp1ggtl_2BvS6Iwd3L26u4GyNFR93Iq2w4/edit

Updates
- Arielle supported us with Eventsforce and everything is ready to be published. We're currently waiting for Comms to publish it
- Izzy is working on the Comms pack with BridgeAI, there's a call on 13 Feb
- Priorities this week: 
    - publish the event on The Turing and BridgeAI websites
    - finish the EoI for the second cohort and send it to BridgeAI team
    - meta case study review, add KW notes, starting to be repetitive and the purpose of the case study. 


Notes - Ideas for The meta case study:
- Trying to get words from a stakeholder from AIStandards and add how important it is
- Align the reasons why it is important to invest in the Skills Platform and at the TTW PH, include testimonials that have taken the courses  (ask Sarah)
-


## Other  / We did not have time to cover these points

Backlog from last meeting. 

- EoI to open Comms working group 
- (ALS/AAA) Best design of a working group repo, how we want them to be structured, what is needed, easy templates of the minimum they require to facilitate contributions (issue)
- (ALS/AAA) best design to align the community to navigate on the different repos (issue)
