# The Turing Way - Core Project Management Meetings / 11 Jan 2024

## Bi-weekly meetings (with some exceptions)

**Participants** 
This call is joined by *The Turing Way* Project Management Staff:

* Kirstie Whitaker
* Malvika Sharan 
* Alexandra Araujo Alvarez 
* Arielle Bennett 

## Agenda

Review together the agenda and agree on priorities and timings.  

:hourglass_flowing_sand: **Timing:** Total 90 min
---

| Duration | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| Start | ðŸ‘‹ Welcome |
| 05 mins | Check in   |
| 20 mins | TTW Practitioners Hub 2024  
| 10 mins | CZI Localisation Proposal
| 20 min | TTW Community Call Agenda (15 Feb)
| 20 min | Q1 TTW Event Calendar and ways of working
| 10 mins | Jupyterhub project status
5 mins | Wrap up  

### Format:
* Follow The Turing Way Code of Conduct 
* We will keep to time (Ale will keep us on track!)
* What we don't get done here, we'll move to the next meeting

---

**Parking lot:**

- Develop a The Turing Way Funding Policy
- TTW Governance 
- Develop a The Turing Way Policy for Participating in conferences
- TTW Website and URL (https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3266)

---

### The Turing Way Practitioners Hub

#### Practitioners Hub 2024 goals

Goals for 2024 (proposal to discuss) - For BridgeAI:
- Showcase activities, webinars and other type of public events to create interest and engage with BridgeAI sectors
- Launch the 2nd Cohort of Experts in Residence representing different sectors
- Expand the Practitioners Hub network to highlight, connect and elevate their work

Notes:
- It should go beyond BridgeAI, include more open science organisation, national and international
- The original vision included different sectors and we should remain TTW
- We will be conscious of the language we use in each of the spaces we go to (BridgeAI)
- Where we want to grow? International promotion of TTWPH, mention BridgeAI as the funder
- BRANDING: Action to ALE (!) / 1-pager will be done with their branding
- AB: About the recruitment of the 2nd cohort, how we make this happen can set up the rules of what BridgeAI will cover ---> open call without mentioning that we will pay for their time
- We should find more funding (Action!) / can we cover start-up 10% salaries? (Action)
- Are there ways to making different funders happy? Yes
- AB: support for application calls with Ale
- KW would like to be more cc'd on BridgeAI/TTWPH comms, notes from meetings, Action to Ale, tell Dominica 
- KW: TPS / BridgeAI / Skills: hone our messaging around where open source communities and skills overlap and interact. Bring Vera's team closer to TPS team

Potential activities per month:

| Month | Activity | Objective(s) | Comments|
| -------- | -------- | -------- |------|
| January | External virtual promotion of case studies. Promote the EiR participation, TTWPH and their work | Provide evidence of their work and inspire other sectors with their practices | 1-pager case studies are being developed and [Comms plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yV2Gth7ANRq5MiLB-dFPDKIwqD5ZC2U7/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs) will be agreed
February | TTWPH Webinar (1): meta case study showcase, what to expect from BridgeAI and TTWPH. Speakers of the meta case study will be invited (Nico, Claire (IUK), Michailis (Hartree), Jimmy (DC)) | Create interest about BridgeAI and TTWPH | The meta case study draft will be ready on 18 Jan. Once we passed it, we will invite speakers to be part of this webinar
March | TTWPH @ AIUK Present and promote the case studies, promote the programme. **Open the applications to apply to the 2nd cohort** (Expression of interest)| Create interest for the next cohort and connect with potential applicants | Work on the application documents (are we paying again? - More info below)
April | TTWPH Webinar (2). Support applications and connect with BridgeAI to promote the programme | Create interest for the second cohort and empower EiR from the 1st cohort (throught the webinar) | Webinar: Energy and Transport sector (collaboration from DC) 
May | TTWPH Webinar (3). Close the applications for the 2nd cohort | Create interest for the second cohort and empower EiR from the 1st cohort (throught the webinar) | Webinar: topic to be defined
June - August | Meet and select participants of the 2nd cohort. Prepare contracts | Find the right fit for EiR 
Sept - Feb | **Launch of second cohort of EiR** | Activities available in the next section


#### EiR Cohort 2 Type of Activities

The Turing Way Practitioners Hub will launch a second cohort in 2024. Within the 6 months of the cohort, we would like to propose to offer mandatory activities optional activities. 
* Mandatory activities: The Experts in Residence are expected to come to this activities
* Optional: The Turing Way Practitioners Hub will organise training and networking sessions that aim to empower the Experts with tools and practices that will benefit them and their teams 

|  Activity | Description  | Objective(s) | Mandatory (M) or Optional (O)|
| -------- | -------- | -------- |------|
|In-person events (2-3) | Cohort inauguration, non-structure day/practices demonstration day and celebration | Connect with other Open Source Experts in Residence, Turing and BridgeAI folks (ISA's) | M 
Collaborations Cafe (12 sessions) | Virtual co-working spaces held fortnightly on the first and third Wednesdays of each month for 2 hours | Share expertise and gain knowledge from The Turing Way to increase and empower a forum to highlight, connect of 'open science and AI' practitioners | M: 50%
Case study writing | Co-creating case studies capturing â€˜open science and AI practicesâ€™ in their org/sector | Recognise and promote their use of open science and AI to a broader forum of practitioners | M
Trainings | Available for current and past EiR, BridgeAI and The Turing Way community members. Up to 10 people per training session. Training sessions will not be scheduled on Collab Cafes days | Provide training opportunities to empower the EiR, BridgeAI and The Turing Way with tools and practices that will benefit them and their teams | O (EiR will have the priority to join but they should confirm max 2 weeks in advance) |

We hosted the following trainings during the 1st cohort, should the order change? Should other trainings be included / removed?


| Month (cohort 1) | Activity | Materials | Comments/Changes: Future cohorts |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | ---- |
|Month 1 (July)  | **Stakeholder mapping and engagement**     | [Slide-deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BO-_VtRL-WrcpoEzSv_4ZCcEEg8QaZepeRGx6rB9grQ/edit#slide=id.g25a61fe364e_0_57) / [Worksheet with guidance on how to get started](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r08Yu2tG8DcOiMpF6bbHrlgMRdePNxlWSRd3tvK7fcQ/edit#heading=h.xhqdovkwrb1u) / [Miro template](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMWzhGGc=/) |
|  | **Inauguration** Full Day hybrid Workshop about **Adapting Data Science Best Practices** |  [Practitioners Hub Panel - Neil Chue Hong, Lauren Wool, Simon Reeve, Kirstie Whitaker, Jennifer Ding - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTH6-BA9ouE&t=5s) | For the second cohort, we should include the EiR of the 1st cohort
Month 2 (August) | **User Journey Mapping** + individual coaching sessions by Fruto with each EiR | 8-hour workshop and 1 hour of individual coaching session facilitated by [Fruto](https://frutostudio.co.uk/) | This training should happen before the EiR start co-writing the case studies
Month 3 (September) | **Discussion on open leadership** | [The Turing Way Open Leadership in Data Science](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/collaboration/leadership.html) / [Managing open and reproducible data science projects](https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/managing-computational-projects/) 
|  | **Pedagogy of technical teaching** and how that transfers to your own contexts | [The Carpentries instructor training](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/01-welcome.html) and [Teaching Tech Together](https://teachtogether.tech/) |
| |  **Skills/Knowledge Gap Mapping** - delivered by the Turing Skills Team | [Slide-deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sl7dLQMjGF8q7FmZi-CqFEpIcDLsy1yc/edit#slide=id.p1) / [TTW-PH-Skills Gaps Workshop notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xGeUuDYHRSkozstzZbjEXrxmLsEChmFWKXnU4EFZIWQ/edit) | The EiR were very interested and we got very useful feedback
Month 4 (October) | **Systems Thinking Workshop** led by [Digital Catapult](https://www.digicatapult.org.uk/) | [Introduction to Systems Thinking Slide-deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10pTmynOgXVVGanR9pKtCZC4J4Nj2EgdZ/edit#slide=id.g19b5cc77afc_0_329) / [Leverage Points: Places to Intervene in a System](https://donellameadows.org/archives/leverage-points-places-to-intervene-in-a-system/)| 
Month 5 (November) | **Product Strategy and Road mapping** led by [Superbloom](https://superbloom.design/) | Notes to be added | BridgeAI doesn't consider international expenses
Month 6 (December) | **Celebration Day: Fireside Chat / Webinars** | 

* Training that should be included (following the feedback of the first cohort):
    * Licenses
    * Metrics

* Should EiR be offered a 0.20 fte payment? We will review following the EoI

Notes:
- The design will be reviewed with Malvika and Ale
-
-
-

### CZI Localisation Proposal

Notes: Email from Carly to meet 

* who should join the meeting:  - ask representation of localisation to join the meeting
* MS has a good relationship with them but as the number of people is big she's copy to 
* KW and MS will discussed this through Slack -- as the meeting will most probably be late, MS will attend but KW will send the email to the Localisation team
* ACTION: Organise a pre-meeting to coordinate discussion with potential attendees 
* MS: Include other people that have collaborated in the prospect of getting this funding, not sure when but consider them ---> KW, share this with them asap for them to know about the progress. If we are invited to send a proposal we will be sharing that too. MS will get in touch with the stakeholders

### The Turing Way OPEN Community Call Agenda (15 Feb)

The meeting will focus on (?):
- Future
- Governance
- Working groups 2024 goals 
- Other

https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/TTW-community-call-15Feb

Agenda: 
Welcome the session: Anne
5/10 min Kirstie: Pre
Working groups presentation: max 5 min per person
    - Translation and localisation
    - Infrastructure
    - Accessibility
    - Book Dash
    - Data Skills/ Research Infrastructure roles (formalising the working group)
    - Practitioners Hub (Ale)
Q&A

Notes / Ideas:
- MS: would like to put out at Github, about finance, scope of working groups
- KW: OPEN Community Call, to include members of the community that not necessarily are core team members
    - Understand the Governance of TTW
    - Put mayor people on stage, give an introduction, and then the community ask questions. Leaders of the community answer questions. Lots of time for Q&A as possible
- KW will give a presentation about Governance, Three level of decision making and Mountain of engagement. 
- Chairs of Working group give a small presentation: 
    - Translation and localisation
    - Infrastructure
    - Accessibility
    - Book Dash
    - Data Skills/ Research Infrastructure roles (formalising the working group)
    - Practitioners Hub
- Promotion: open the registration, like a Fireside Chat to get the link to access, we would like
- **Actions to AAA**: Share this (https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/afterword/subprojects) with all working groups to update info
- Action to ALS: We should update this: https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/afterword/subprojects  ---> review what is missing and needs to be changed, Anne should block time to have this done and KW could review and edit
- Action to Ale: CC Ann when we need KW do tasks / task lists: Review and edit documents for example. Governance, for example - she should be reviewing. (https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/tps-team/blob/main/team-member-docs/kirstie-whitaker/personal-handbook.md). Data Protection and Relationship between The Turing and The Turing Instute --- open as PR before the meeting on the 15 Februar
- MS would like to KW to review this by Friday 26 January https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z_r0G6dmtlw0icQ_ctkhLG_QxZDhuRZaSTSkGvAVK6w/edit#heading=h.bk128dwchkvm ---> Mision, vision, scope. PLUS the working groups (Anne) and Three level of decision making (Ale). ---> Malvika would review them first

### TTW Q1 Events and ways of working

* ALS and AAA have started adding all projects in a Github project tracker
https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/projects/3/views/

* Q1 Events (Jan-March): https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1lWCWKAAXSlluo5d78LAjoMS9dfDxB27Y7Fb_wGI9B6Q/edit#gid=577525947
    * Onboarding sessions: Jan/March
    * Challenges: Fireside Chat and TTW PH webinars

Notes:
- For each task where should we connect the issue to, rcm&rpm or broadly connected to mental model. Example: Book Dash Planning
- Justify the model of where we send some info
- All OK with having a webinar and Fireside Chat during the same month. 
- Check with Anne if she has contacted Marion

### Jupyterhub status

Review the status of the following tasks
- [ ] Contract agreement: chase Darren (last email on 10 Jan)
- [ ] Kick off project - Meeting with Sumana: 15 Jan
    - [x] Identify meeting goal: Brainstorm
    - [ ] Proactive updates to Chris Holdgraft
- [ ] RACI matrix
- [ ] Ethics / TreX: Yes (KW will be included in it)--> Task it. Ale will start and KW will edit / 30 min together to go through the document together. Invite all the people who will collaborate in the project. KW  

Notes:
* Pro active updates to Chris Holdgraft
* Bring Dawm from CHAOSS to the conversation - Send KW the podcast. Malvika did it.



