# The Turing Way - Core Project Management Meetings 18 April 2024

## Bi-weekly meetings (with some exceptions)

* Kirstie Whitaker
* Malvika Sharan  
* Alexandra Araujo Alvarez 
* Arielle Bennett 

## Agenda

Review together the agenda and agree on priorities and timings.

:hourglass_flowing_sand: **Timing:** Total 90 min

| Duration | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| Start | ðŸ‘‹ Welcome |
| 05 mins | Check in   |
| 20 mins | Community Forum Prep (23 April) |
| 20 mins | Collaborations Workshop - Podcast episode decision | 
| 20 min | CoC Form review |
| 20 min | Other - Backlog (Jupyterhub, recruitment) |
5 mins | Wrap up |

---------

Successful actions:
- SRCM for BridgeAI and The Turing Way finished -->AAA has been appointed. Transition started on 08 April 
- Good progress about the Senior Researcher for Open Practices

### Meeting Summary Actions: (TBA after the meeting)
- MS (ALS): promote event & share the agenda with speakers and check if they have any questions
    - Promote on Slack, Linkedin, Mastodon: share zoom registration link
    - Invite all speakers to join 5 mins before the call
        - Share this pad with speakers in a cal invite: https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-community-forum-2024
        - We have slide deck where we should add all speakers to add their 
- MS will post on Slack: 5-year Anniversary Stickers (unique collectable sticker to get when you join TTW)
- AA to confirm the podcast episode to be partially produced at The Collaborations Workshop and online
- AA/AB to proceed with purchasing the swanky socks: 2 designs and 200 hundred: update quote, review T&C
- JupyterHub project: KW to review the Collaboration agreement before sending it to NumFocus (AB)

----
## Community Forum  23 April - Last Prep

Community Forum Planning issue - 23 April: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3582

Zoom registration (sent out through newsletter and shared on Slack): https://turing-uk.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJwpfuyrrD8pGtcpq7fikghlob3CACTnSQMm?utm_source=turingway&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=attend-our-community-forum-apply-to-join-the#/registration

Outstanding actions:
- Review the agenda: https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/TTW-Forum-23April
- https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-community-forum-2024
    - Check facilitators and prompts

People involved and task allocation:
- DG will chair - confirmed, would need some pointers on what would be some tips and nudge for the chairs
- JM will present about the Infra WG - confirmed
- MS to present about the idea of Comms WG
    - Created an issue to already open the discussion: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3622
- AAA to present BridgeAI and Practitioners Hub: Share EoIs
- WN Book Dash promotion
- ALS: promote event & share the agenda with speakers and check if they have any questions
    - Promote on Slack, Linkedin, Mastodon: share zoom registration link
    - Invite all speakers to join 5 mins before the call
        - Share this pad with speakers in a cal invite: https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/TTW-Forum-23April
        - We have slide deck where we should add all speakers to add their slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12yZZw56BWYKaRhRUhFe6ikQSdTV2KiB7/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=102682705838770934280&rtpof=true&sd=true
    

Notes
*
*
*
*


## Collaborations Workshop 

[TTW mini-workshop at the Collaborations workshop, confirmed](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3551) -->
The session has been scheduled for CW24 Day 2: Wednesday, 1 May 2024, 14:40 - 15:40 BST (13:40 - 14:40 UTC; 60 minutes), you can view the full agenda here: https://www.software.ac.uk/cw24-agenda

Proposed schedule - Kirstie to post as comment on GitHub issue: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3551

Review previous actions status
- KW to write to Patricia about data sharing for Bastian, Alejandro and Georgia 
- Childcare expense its done
- AB to finalise bookings for CW24 (EK, ALS, AAA): Done - Emma will attend online / Ale needs to buy her train ticket, waiting to get access to Gray Dawes
- MS to confirm if LH needs to be registered to give talk during this session
    - Answer was yes, AB might have sent an email.
- AAA to think about environmentally friendly birthday celebrations (will do my best to buy eco-friendly celebration stuff ----> 
    - Kirstie: Buy and bring a cake in her car
    - Ale: will bring:
    * Cards
    * Stickers
    * Turing Way Banner
    * Candles that say T U R I N G W A Y and 5 
    * a big balloon with 5 (the helio one)
    * Birthday banner 
    * Confetti 
    * Small plates 
    * napkins 
    * spoons 
    * matches 
    * 5-year Anniversary Stickers (unique collectable sticker to get when you join TTW): MS will post online
- Collaboration with Code for Thought for a podcast episode about _The Turing Way_ 5-year Anniversary.
    - Peter Schmidt will be at the Collaborations Workshop, could attend our session, get the vibe and interview people there. 
    - His podcast audience is very align to _The Turing Way_ users
    - Cost: Â£1,100 (includes interviews, producing, editing and publishing on his podcast channel)
    - Aim is to record the historical aspect of The Turing Way: who should be interviewed? What should be included? 
        - Malvika should be included
        - Partly done at the Collaborations Workshop and partly online (Action to AA): Recording on people singing Happy Birthday. 
        - MS and KW will have a chat about who to include
        - International collaborators will be included
* The Turing Way - Swanky socks: low chances it arrives on time for the Collab workshop but definitely on time for Book Dash
    * Agree on design
    ![Screenshot 2024-04-17 120751](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/Hk8-RwRl0.png)
    * Supplier T&C: https://in.xero.com/m/k5BsH0k3iPo7wVgtguhoJvaLjoKJkUTyajY8NnCB?utm_source=invoiceEmailPayNowButton&utm_campaign=invoicesEmailV2ExperimentVariation-Variation3#paynow (AA / AB) 
    * Quantity (200?): We agreed on 200 - Check if we can have 2 different designs (No to the left one - with the balance)
    * List of people to send - Draft: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TB-05VHVh5h79pTkOyfPzz_SY2zjHXUwLmjIYF7bHOY/edit#gid=0

## Code of Conduct Form - To be added in the book

* Update CoC document with some missing details: https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3229
* Create report handling manual in CoC: https://github.com/the-turing-way/.github/pull/3

Actions
* Code of conduct Form ready for your review - Collaborator link here: https://forms.office.com/Pages/DesignPageV2.aspx?subpage=design&FormId=p_SVQ1XklU-Knx-672OE-Y7Akle7QvZEgPbWyXh31R9URUpDS041TkZVVDZPQkM1N1RVWUg4MUlBUi4u&Token=9723bb254e5f4a549d9a1325c65f127b
* I'm using Sharepoint as this is sensitive data but could be discussed if we should use Google forms as we use to most of our forms 


Notes:
* We will move this agenda to another session
* Ale: review her notes about the aspects we need to include in Github
* KW has this in her TODO to review

## Other (backlog)

### Jupyterhub
* Agreement: KW has it and we need her input. Ale has been taken out but a PM will be charged to this
    * Once it is approved by NumFocus, we will start the TREx forms
* TreX:
* Next actions: Arielle to review budget template and issue contract for NumFOCUS review

### Recruitment (Status)
* Senior Researcher for Open Practices: it's with KW now as Nicola wants to review the JD. Timeframe: 1 more week

### Other
