### 28-05-2025 

### Check in

* Attending:
   * Malvika
   * Jim
   * Arielle - dropping off in hour
   * Léllé - dropping off in hour
   * Liz
   * Kirstie
   * Batool 
   * Anne

* Apologies:
   * Emma

## Agenda:

* Agenda for May: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/24](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/24)
   * Nomination form: [https://forms.gle/idEqbgtTH2CW9oSX9](https://forms.gle/idEqbgtTH2CW9oSX9)
       * Voting process confirmation - agreed in the last meeting!
   * Involvement in Community Forum - June 19 (will be launched on that day)
       * Form for sign-ups: [https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfjbl-ETScE69-E0dV5L4h9uPl465nRvvNG\_zH\_wnaIsa59AA/viewform?usp=dialog](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfjbl-ETScE69-E0dV5L4h9uPl465nRvvNG\_zH\_wnaIsa59AA/viewform?usp=dialog)
   * Identify some priority areas for The Turing Way
       * WG's priorities and ways to gather those for upcoming meetings / listening sessions
       * Financial sustainability and organisational support beyond June 2025
   * Sync and Async approval process to be confirmed
   * Governance Documentation Review (Documentation to be systematically reviewed by the Steering Committee: Review plans TBD #21)

### Notes:

* Any notes that can't be recorded in public should be archived internally by current project management team
   * Repo for public notes and decisions established here: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/tree/main/constititution-level-resources/meeting-notes](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/tree/main/constititution-level-resources/meeting-notes)
   * We have reached out to a prospective returning officer, waiting for a reply.
       * In the case they can't help, we have other options in an order we would approach them
   * Prerequisites/requirements for standing for an executive position
       * Short speech at meeting (which meeting?), or, submit a recording
       * and, write a short paragraph
   * Voting process
       * Nomination form [https://forms.gle/idEqbgtTH2CW9oSX9](https://forms.gle/idEqbgtTH2CW9oSX9)
       * Introduction of the SC at the upcoming community forum 19 June 15:00–16:30 BST - is it enough time to nominate?
           * This would be a good time to present the outcomes and roles if we can complete the election process in time.
       * That gives ~1 week for nominations. Group was happy that this gives enough time
       * SC Meeting on 11th June could be used for people to make their pitches
   * Introduction of SC to the community with questions prepared by Malvika and Arielle
       * Action: Send cal invites, share agenda/questions.
   * Priority areas in the Turing Way:
       * Book Dash - **funding to support the event**: accessibility fund, workshop stipends, supporting organisers (!), etc; diversification of planning committee \& expansion of working group ➕+1
       * Communications - chapter of the week / month, contributor of the week / month, illustration of the week / month (you get the jist!) ➕+1
           * CM WG
       * Funding - who? What? and then \_from whom\_ 
       * Partnerships - strategic connections across other open source communities
           * MyST, Carpentries etc
       * Relationship to Practitioners Hub?
       * Localisation WG: Recruiting or nominating new co-leads for the localisation work, and exploring better ways to recognise translators — such as certificates or other forms of acknowledgment, which several contributors have suggested. It would also be helpful to consider funding to support infrastructure and deployment +1+1
       * Community Management WG: handover from funded roles  +1+1➕+1
           * Completed tasks: Onboarding for GitHub, slack, etc  
           * To do: Pass on information about responsibilities for chairing/supporting steering committee
           * Creating a RACI matrix between WG to keep up with activities
           * Need to create modes of embedding/connecting between different WGs+1
       * Maintenance - GitHub maintenance like issue triage, cleaning stale PRs, assigning reviewers+1 (I think this isn't really for SC, but I do think it is important)(also might apply specifically in the context of the Infrastructure Working Group)(JM: This is probably a conversation for another place, but I think this isn't infrastructure. I would say it is community management, but I think we use that role differently in The Turing Way)
       * MS: Clarifying and communication partnership models and funding pathways for The Turing Way
           * Who can support, how etc.
       * Decision making process within working groups
       * Sustainability of WGs work
       * Accessibility WG: I think it’s really important for the accessibility working group to collaborate with the funding working group so we can recruit people to create TTW content about accessibility.
   * Which of these priority areas SC need to take a lead on?
       * AB: Role of SC is about empowering community to apply for funding
           * Inches behind Fundraising WG, but explicitly situating power and work that SC believes need to sit with people - not necessarily applying for funding
           * A big theme is sustainability --> funding
               * BA: It seems the main overlap is around funding and sustainability
                   * JM: It does read a lot like different aspects of funding and sustainability. Maybe it shows we are all worried about continuation of the things we value without the institutional support?
       * LH: I think it depends on the type of funding — some agreements may be more global and others might be relevant to specific working groups
           * Some funders may want to support the project as whole
           * Some for specific WGs
           * People don't have to join the fundraising WGs
       * BA: What else do you think we could offer beyond suggesting funding opportunities and supporting with applications? Is there anything The Turing Way could do to help — such as hosting or managing the funds, or any other kind of support that might make the process easier for community members?
           * MS: Who will manage the fund? 
               * Fiscal hosting?
               * Registration as non-profit?
               * Applying individually for people to support TTW work as part of their roles / Fellowships (SSI) / 
           * So, we could focus on funding in two priority areas: 1) supporting community and project management, and 2) helping working groups with their specific work, through a fiscal sponsor or institutional support.
       * AB: Note on Delivery Groups and disambiguating from WGs, action: ensure the wording and decision-making documentation align
       * KW: A weird question - where do metrics and evaluation sit? I guess in "project management"? Meaning - if we fund project management that's one of the tasks that a PM role would take forwards? And where those responsibilities sit in the existing WGs - I'm thinking about sustainability
           * Yes, metrics and evaluation usually sits on PMs
           * Funding would be processed by a PM role?
           * We're missing an explicit location (working group / delivery group) for the metrics \& evaluation tracking....
   * Decision making within Working Groups:
       * How do we help formalise or structure this without taking away the power of WGs to make decisions about their work?
           * LH: Accessibililty WG is small
               * Should have a way to recruit new members
               * Helpful to have a documentation about how different groups have structured their decision
           * JM: Consistency in the SC
               * WG can decide their own timeline (chair's time)
               * There can be misalignment in the timeline of the SC
               * WG can decide to have same people or different people during that time
                   * Can have friction if they are chair/secretary of the SC
               * More concrete space like Community Forum, somewhere to share notes, process to get people joining their WG, make them visible -- so WGs don't become siloed
           * BA: created small groups within WG who were led by different people
               * When people leading thise step down, responsibilities fall in the same person
               * How to manage the ladder of growth within the WG? feedback from SC will be great!
           * KW: I can imagine a time in the future where we have rotating "deep dives" at the steering group level where we focus on a working group at a time and do a "closed" version of the updates that we have in the community calls - a safer space to say "what's not working well, where do you need support?"
               * I want to just say that coming to these meetings with problems / challenges is a feature and very much in line with what I see a steering committee should be focused on <3
           * LD: Decision making/ways of working guide for WG
               * During the handover and onboarding, this will help other members to make decisions (not just ALS and LD)
               * How do we work, vs document things we have done in the past
               * Don't have the chair of the WG? - *ALS-LD (will confirm!)*
           * ALS: Different levels of roles in the community/WG
               * Documentation from different people to document the stages we're in: ie. recruiting more members, etc.
           * JM: Infra WG has adopted agile way of working
               * project board - assigned to people
               * Role of chair: If decision needs to made, chair can help break ties and unblock decisions
               * Sounds like it would be difficult to impose WGs all follow a single way of work
               * However, maybe we could impose things about WGs recording decisions and so on, so they have transparency and accountability
           * MS: Should we have SC meeting agenda in the future (starting in July) that requires each WG/project to report what they are working on, what needs to be promoted, where they want support.
   * Sync and Async approval process to be confirmed
       * BA: I like the simple voting in Slack or Github with emoji with deadline for the voting!
       * JM: GitHub issues (public - anyone can look and see record of thumbs up/down) -- even if we do synchronous recording, github issue could be a good way.
           * Synchronous meetings can add the pressure of people committing to something they may not have carefully thought about
   * Rule of voting?
       * Majority?
       * What if someone is missing/absent?
       * Cal invite for deadline -- until when someone needs to make decision?
       * OLS process: [https://github.com/open-life-science/ols-governance/blob/main/docs/decision-making-process.md](https://github.com/open-life-science/ols-governance/blob/main/docs/decision-making-process.md)
           * There are some points here that we need to follow - should we start with a version of this document?
       * Addressing power dynamics
           * Conflict resolution process
   * Code of Conduct
       * Moving it outside the Turing
       * Who owns the CoC --> community - they should be able to propose changes
           * Who approves the changes? --> SC most likely
       * Who enforces it?
           * CoC committee - separate from SC
           * Can we collborate with The Carpentries?
               * Mutual agreement
   * AOB
       * Forgot to take a break at mid point! Should update future agenda with that in mind.

**Actions:**

   * MS: Decision making process documentation - discussion and reference
   * Continue the governance Documentation Review (Documentation to be systematically reviewed by the Steering 
       * Prepare future agenda with single documentation review and approval

**Agenda Item to include in the next meeting**

   * Metrics and evaluation
   * Fiscal hosting - money management for The Turing Way

---

## Summary from this meeting

* **Election Process:**
   * Nominations will open via the provided Google Form, closing on 8/9 June
   * An external officer has been contacted, with backup options identified - should be decided before 11 June to support the voting process.
   * The Steering Committee (SC) meeting on June 11th is proposed for candidates to give short pitches.
       * Requirements for standing for a position include a short speech/recording/written paragraph, especially if people can't attend this meeting in person.
   * Election will start right after, closing on 16 June with outcomes announced by 17/18 June
   * The SC and newly elected roles will be introduced at the Community Forum on June 19th (15:00-16:30 BST).
* **Priority Areas for The Turing Way:**
   * A strong consensus emerged around **funding and financial sustainability** as a key overarching priority, specifically:
     * Supporting events like Book Dash (accessibility, stipends, diversification of planning).
     * General project and community management funding.
   * Targeted funding recommendation for Supporting specific Working Group (WG) work.
   * Exploring fiscal sponsorship or institutional support, and identifying who will manage funds.
   * Clarifying and communicating partnership models and funding pathways.
* **Other priority areas where SC can advice** - through WG-specific meeting discussions:
   * **Communications:** Chapter/contributor/illustration of the week/month.
   * **Localisation WG:** Recruiting new co-leads, recognising translators (certificates, acknowledgment), and funding for infrastructure/deployment.
   * **Community Management WG:** Handover from funded roles and creating a RACI matrix for inter-WG coordination.
   * **Maintenance:** GitHub issue triage, PR cleaning (though discussion on where this sits within governance is ongoing) - general decision making
   * **Accessibility WG:** Collaboration with funding WG to recruit contributors
* **Decision-Making within Working Groups:**
   * Need to formalise or structure decision-making processes for WGs without stifling autonomy.
   * A "ways of working" or "decision-making guide" for WGs was suggested, particularly for onboarding and handover.
   * Emphasis on transparency and accountability through recording decisions (e.g., GitHub issues).
   * SC could consider rotating "deep dives" into WGs to understand challenges and offer support.
* **Sync and Async Approval Process:**
   * Simple voting via Slack or GitHub emojis with deadlines was favored.
   * GitHub issues were suggested for public record-keeping of decisions.
   * OLS governance document for decision-making could be a good starting point/reference.
* **Governance Documentation Review:** Systematic review by the Steering Committee is planned, with future agenda items to include documentation review and approval timeline**Code of Conduct (CoC): **Discussion on who owns, approves changes, and enforces the CoC, with a suggestion of a separate CoC committee. Collaboration with The Carpentries was also considered.
* **Next Steps/Actions:**
   * MS to send around nomination form
   * AB to confirm external officer to support the voting
   * MS to provide OLS's approval processes document as the starting point - SC to comment and adapt it for The Turing Way
   * SC to Continue governance documentation review on their own
   * MS and AB to prepare future agendas (more info at the end of Framapad)
       * Dedicate time for discussing general processes and concepts from governance documentation - June
       * WG and project report out - from July
       * WG specific discussion sessions - advising on specific areas, opportunities for learning
       * include metrics and evaluation, and fiscal hosting/money management.
       * update future agendas with a mid-meeting break.
