## 11-06-2025

### Check in

* Attending:
  * Emma
  * Liz
  * Arielle
  * Kirstie
  * Jim
  * Malvika
  * Lelle

* Apologies:
   * Batool
   * Anne

## Agenda:

*Please note that most discussion can continue via GitHub issues after the meeting is over.*
*You can create a new issue and tag it under the Project board 10:[ https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/projects/10](https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/projects/10)*

1. Steering Committee role nominations
1. Voting Process update
1. Statements from candidates
1. Community Forum Preparation
1. BREAK 
1. Schedule for the rest of the year
1. WG update - more candid

### Notes

* Yanina Bellini Saibene is happy to support the voting process - we are excited!
* Nominations
* Chair: Arielle, Kirstie, Jim
    * Malvika (excused herself)
    * Emma Karoune (excused herself)
* Secretary: Jim Madge, Arielle
* Chair-elect: Batool Almarzouq
* Secretary-elect: None!
    * Léllé Demertzi (excused herself)
* We don't have a nomination for secretary elect - discussion on how to proceed
* DECISION: Elect for chair, chair-elect and secretary, runner up for secretary is offered preferential choice for secretary-elect, election follows if they decline 
* If one person sweeps the board, they should be offered a choice
* Everyone on the Steering Committee is expected to fill in the voting form; there will be an option to abstain, and an option to "re-open nominations (RON)" 
* Endorsement by the majority of the *entire* committee, not just those who vote
* Statements from candidates - will be added to the form - 100-150 words (including those running uncontested) 

#### Community Forum: 1 hour Fireside Chat

* The steering committee will be introduced to the community on 19 June at the Community Forum
* We will host the Fireside Chat with questions:
1. ***Please prepare a 1-minute intro about yourself. You should consider the following prompts in thinking about your intro.***
    1.1 Your positionality as an individual with an interest in The Turing Way's governance while holding responsibility towards a specific group (Working Group/project)
    1.2 What is one thing you'd consider your ideal for shaping the governance in The Turing Way?
1. **What are we trying to achieve as a steering committee over the next months?**
1. **Where do you hope we will be in the next five years as a result of the governance work we are doing now?**
1. **Reflecting on your own experience, what would you say is the route to becoming involved in the decision-making in The Turing Way? (highlight the structures you are putting together to empower community members)**
1. Closing: What is your one thing you’d like to do as part of the committee that you’d feel proud of?

**Question preferences:**

* 1: all
* 2: Arielle, Liz
* 3: Jim, Kirstie
* 4: Malvika, Batool
* 5: all
* Check preference from Anne/CM WG

### Meeting Scheduling

* LH: Monthly might feel too sparse
* LD: +1 to Liz. Fortnightly still works.
* KW: +1
* EK: In  August, not many people will be around
* KW: plan August differently - but keep it going.
* Format:
    * Documentation review and approval
    * WG deep dive
* After documentation review, we can revisit the format!

#### WG deep dive schedule rota

_WGs: Infrastructure, Community Management, Accessibility, Translation & Localisation, Book Dash, fundraising_

* 26 June: Infrastructure
* 9 July: Community Management
* 23 July: Bookdash
* 13 August: 
* 27 August:
* 10 September:
* 24 September: Delivery Groups: DSWB, Practitioners Hub (this may not need a deep dive), JupyterHub 

#### Documentation review

* 26 June: Voting process, WG documentation
* 9 July: WG documentation
* 23 July: Constitution Level documentation
* 13 August: Guiding principles
* 27 August: Guiding principles
* 10 September: review backlog
* 24 September: project deep dive

### Things to bring back in a future meeting

* Observing roles in steering committee
* Community Forum finalisation

### Actions

* MS to follow up with Yani
* MS to ask members to supply statements
* SC/all for writing down their intro - we can then share it somewhere in the book/newsletter
* Check with BA and ALS on their participation and preference for the Community Forum
* ABL to send the calendar invites for fortnightly
* MS to confirm WGs dates
