# Steering Committee Meeting Notes 23-07-2025

## Attending:
- Kirstie 
- Jim
- Emma Karoune
- Lelle Demertzi
- Liz
- Arielle
- Batool - dialling in from ISMB, huge conference in Liverpool! 

### Apologies
- Malvika

## AGENDA/NOTES
- Discussion on how Working Groups make decisions currently
  - **Infra**
    - Small group who mostly agree so there's no specific structure, easy to discuss and come to consensus
    - Docracy - relies on people not doing anything dramatic without running past people first
    - Would be happy with more formal guidelines around bigger decisions how to make and communicate those
    - Documentation is via GitHub issues and activity mostly - don't really have other documentation
    - Works on consensus
  - Q do you feel this approach is working to get things done that need doing? How does this impact empowerment?
    - Do naturally open issues, pulls request - it's not scalable maybe and there's not lots of coordination which could lead to conflicts because people work based on interest
    - Do encourage new people when they're interested but does rely on them putting themselves forward - if you're not a "GitHub person" maybe it's less accessible 
  - **Book Dash**
    - Similar to infrastructure in terms of decision making: consensus based but informal.
    - Do have more structure  appointed chair and documentarian, did discuss a length of term for the chair of 2 years I think.
    - Helps with empowerment and inclusion to bring new people in
    - Chair takes on a lot of responsibility and is the default do-er
    - Chairing requires having participated in planning a previous Book Dash
    - There is a lot of knowledge gained from taking part, so it would be very difficult for a brand new person to lead (important for continuity of experience in Book Dashes)
    - Book Dash committees are formed and dissolved _every_ bookdash, the Working Group provides continuity between dashes
    - Processes are documented in the community handbook, some notes taken but not uploaded yet
    - Noted that Emma represents the Book Dash on the Steering Committee by agreement with the Book Dash Working Group even though Arielle is chair 
  - Q Is Book Dash a working group or delivery group? If we had external grants specifically for delivering Book Dash does the planning committee become a delivery group conceptually
    - We set up the  working group to create continuity between short-term planning communities in Book Dash iterations. A planning committee could be considered a delivery group if there is a direct funding to deliver the event, it is time-bounded and has a specific goal to achieve
    - Planning committee is short term, can have commitments
    - The Working Group provides the continuity with regard to inclusion and accessibility 
  - **Community Working Group**
    - Have roadmap for task delegation as part of Anne hand over - looking out to Sept and will then review
    - There's a temporary chair (leads) each month at the moment - helping to empower people and get them taking the lead
    - Project board with public facing tasks on GitHub - also have a report at the end of co--working which gets posted in Slack
    - Community handbook - does need updating in terms of accessibility etc - this will be revisited in Autumn - much more public decision making process 
    - Empowering people - leads and supports to build confidence 
  - Q How would it work when people are allocated partially to community management in the future? Sub-delivery group?
    - Ideally community management would be a delivery group 
  - **Translation and localisation: localisation leads, language leads**
    - Language leads: structure, guidelines, run meetings with volunteers for specific languages, there's a lot of flexibility
    - Localisation leads: did have high level documentation about decision making because we were experimenting with so many things, had an internal slack channel to discuss as well  
    - This has changed as people have moved on from the working group - to support decision making often now consult the language leads and infrastructure working group 
  - **Accessibility**
    - Anne and Liz were coleads, did a lot of discussion and decision making between the two, do have notes which will get on GitHub eventually (similar to all working groups)
    - Very open to people who turn up for specific pieces of work 
    - Would like to have more people with lived experience sharing strategies for inclusion
    - Accessibility working group maybe wants and needs paid members in the future - similar to translation and localisation - bringing experience of exclusion to bear, need work to be recognised 
- Discussion on the relationship between delivery and working groups
  - External accountability a key factor here but we don't have a good model yet for when working groups get funding to do projects etc
  - Potential tension between paid and volunteer contributors— like Esther’s SSI project
  - Could see this happening for the community management working group - transitioning now from paid to volunteer, how will it work when it changes again? 
  - Needs to be a well defined role, may not automatically chair either - need to be careful and consider how they'll influence the balance
  - Volunteer aspects of community management don't touch on many parts of the role for example, how could paid roles offer additionality 
  - Clearly defined roles, clear channels of communication and accountability
  - Representation at the steering committee level - delivery groups technically should be represented at constitutional level 
  - Where there's money, there is more attention (and tensions) - need to be transparent 
  - I think payment can also take different forms - the payment may be in the form of an honorarium or to cover event costs, rather than full compensation for someone’s time
  - Maybe not all delivery groups will have a direct line to the steering committee given there's likely to be existing working groups for some 
**Delivery groups discussion**
- The Turing Way Practitioner's Hub
  - Cohort based programme that seeks to encourage SMEs to adopt open, ethical and responsible practices in AI. Funded externall by InnovateUK. Likely to finishe in March 2026. There might be other work after this but unknown.
  - Prior to this it was led by Malvika Sharan and AB was co-lead. AB now leading and the decision maker with people working on the project.
  - We use the Turing Way slack. But hard to engage people in the project due to the audience (businesses). Borrows very heavily from our materials. Case studies feed into chapters in the project. 
  - No working group to hold it accountable to - so feeds in to the steering group directly.
  - A lot of the decision making and documents opaque - not original vision, but needed due to funding restrictions.
  - We could use the model to seek funding in the future for a wider participant scope.
  - We could be more transparent about it's existence, decision making etc 
- JupyterHub funding from CZI:- pays for a bit of Kirstie's time, and some of Arielle's time 
  - Knowledge exchange between JupyterHub and Turing Way - practices from both that the other project would benefit from
  - Delivery group is accountable to the funder, JupyterHub community, and Turing Way is a collaborator - JupyterHub holds the grant 
  - Turing Way will benefit from incorporating insights and updating guides
  - Delivery group - try to set up tasks that are open but the paid team members are driving the project forward
  - Want to get JupyterHub to pull suggestions in rather than push 
 - Delivery groups are more separate - is there anything we want to decide the delivery groups should do when making decisions? Memos of understanding or similar
 -  How do we make delivery groups something that other people could do? 
- When does someone roll off the steering group? We'd like to keep things consistent for now! But that is a process we will agree in governance 
- Pin: next meeting to continue to dig into responsibilities and accountability would flow 
