# 07-05-2025 

### Check in

* Attending:
   * Arielle
   * Malvika (joining from India)
   * Jim
   * Liz
   * Kirstie
   * Batool 

* Apologies:
   * Emma (at NIHR conference)
   * Anne (Sick)
   * Léllé (overlapping commitment)

**Notes**
* Please note that most discussion can continue via GitHub issues after the meeting is over.
* You can create a new issue and tag them under the Project board 10: *[https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/projects/10](*https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/projects/10*)
* Agenda for this month's meeting: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/17](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/17)
* The last 30 mins of meeting will happen during the first Pomodoro session of the Collaboration café

## Agenda:

* Nomination form & voting process for committee positions: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/pull/23](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/pull/23)
* Governance documentation for systematic review: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/21](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/21)
* Preferred platforms for documentation review: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/19](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/19)

### Notes:

* AB: We need to organise ourselves. We discussed if we needed a treasurer - the response was not really - we should try to set up a funding WG, so that people can join as needed.
  * We will go ahead with chair + chair elect, secretary and secretary elect
       * Thanks to those who commented
* BA: Reviewed the issues and resources, and they look good for moving forward.
* MS: Like the comment on identifying an external person/body to help with the election.
  * We should also think about post-election, what role what the non-elected members.
* JM: We should move forward.
  * If we want the community to have confidence that we are working fairly and that there are paths for people for engage with the committee. We need to show people that there is that process.
  * MS: process documentation review is the definite next step (an issue is with the docs and comments)
    * We should think about ensuring ongoing transparency in communicating about the SC. Also, we should discuss and plan engagement with the community.
  * AB: We  also need to ensure that any decision goes back to WG so they can trust in the representation.
* Conversation on counting the vote
  * External member
  * Someone senior so they can easily communicate and support
  * Someone who doesn't have a CoI
  * The amount of work will be low -- just an external server where votes will be casted
  * BA: Maybe we can consider later how to acknowledge their contribution in facilitating the voting process — and what a acknowledgment would look like to them?
    * Quicker we can start the process the better.
  * JM: Not many people will be voting, so should be easy to sort out.
  * LH: All good!
* Discussion on election process
  * We have two stages - we will open GH issue:
      * **We have (private) nomination stage!**
      * We are saying that one person can hold one role at a time
      * This can happen via form or publicly
  * You can nominate others, the PDT will reach out for confirmation
  * We allow people to decide which role they want to stand for
    * This to be handled by the PDT
  * Standing people will provide statement of intent - why they want to stand for the role
    * This can be fairly public on an issue!
  * SC prefer private nomination in this initial round but we might approach differently next time
  * We have then voting stage
    *** Action to find an external member to handle the voting** -- names noted in the internal doc.
  * KW: Should go with 4 separate role this year (chair and chair elect -  secretary, secretary elect )
    * Most of SC agreed to have 4 roles this year.
    * If same person is elected for multiple roles, we will follow the hierarchy: chair --> secretary -->  chair elect --> secretary elect
  * BA: I think we should be explicit about the term and how long someone can be sitting in the steering committee?
    * Yes, that is something we did mention in a meeting (2-3 years) -- we should communicate that with the elected members announcements.
    * MS: 2 years with reconfirmation for 1 additional role?
      * Reconfirmation is to allow explicitly for members to step down or stay on -- part of being intentional about allowing people to reflect and step away if they need to.
      * KW: We are not members of this SC, we are representing WG and projects. If we step away from the committee, other member from the WG can join to represent.
      * AB: Power for representation sits with the WG.
          * For example, Infra WG chair changes more frequently than the membership term in SC. So, Jim can be representative as agreed with teh WG, but their WG chair can have the cadence that work for them (like 6 months as currently stands).
          * A guide for 2+1 is good one but power still sits with WG
* Documentation to be systematically reviewed by the Steering Committee [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/21](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/21)
  * Google doc isn't accessible for screen reader
  * GitHub isn't that easy to use for this workflow
  * MS: Can we create a log file for review where all decisions can be recorded?
  * LH: withwith Google Docs, I could only b e able to download and read-- not comment or edit
  * BM: I don’t have preference, I think the question which tool is accessible (e.g. I remember HackMD being accessible for screen reader)? This can’t be synced with GitHub!
  * Liz: HackMD isn't accessible, teh most accessible format for reading only purpose is MD files!
    * Framapad is winner in terms of accessibility!
    * MS: Framapad can handle markdown too.
    * Jim suggested that we do a collective review by bringing everyone together in the same space, though time zones might make that challenging!
       * MS: Maybe we could have SC members focus their review on specific documents they feel most engaged with — that might make the process easier and more motivating. 


**Action:**

   * Collate all names - Reach out to people - we need 1 external person to facilitate the voting process.
       * We already have a nomination form - raise in the issue if there is any suggestion.
       * we will draft an email for invitation and send for approval from the SC.
