# 26-08-2025

## Check in

Check in - who has a "back to school feeling" at the moment?
What plans are you making for the next 9 months? 

### Attending

* Arielle
* Kirstie
* Liz
* Malvika   

### Apologies

* Léllé - leave
* Emma - leave
* Jim - conflicting meeting
* Batool - conflicting meeting

## Agenda / Notes

* ReSA nomination - Sara Villa is planning to nominate herself by 5th September
    * DECISION: Endorse the project engaging with ReSA on principle
    * Question of whether this is a decision for steering committee
    * ACTION: open a vote for Steering Committee on Sara's discussion (AB)
    * ACTION: open a discussion on how to handle nominations to represent the community? (LH) - all members of SC to review and comment, add to next SC meeting agenda
        * Accountability of the person is important
            * Please act as liaison! Slack posts, newsletter updates 
            * Liaisons should maintain a log on their activities
        * What information should someone provide in an application post? Balance between giving useful information and making people write huge answers - how does someone demonstrate their involvement in the community to an extent that they can be a useful representative 
    * ACTION: create a page on liaison roles in the Community Handbook and ask that they keep that up to date 
    * Discussed whether liaisons should communicate directly to the Steering Committee for accountability but ultimately agreed that liaisons should open issues to solicit community input directly 
* Discussion on Delivery Groups continued 
    * Balance between accountability, alignment of projects 
    * Bringing people into the project should be done transparently 
    * Challenge is the people who have the expertise to be on the Steering Committee are also the people who are more likely to go out and get projects - but then 
    * Important not to consolidate power when creating processes 
    * The more transparent we can be about how to propose delivery groups, and how the projects relate to them, the better
    * How do we mentor and bring on less experienced members of delivery groups to be able to represent their groups and become leaders in the community?
        * Observers at SC meetings? Excellent examples of benefits from OLS but may not be very useful long term because we don't want to make lots of decisions at this level 
        * Allow co-chairs of delivery groups or working groups to come to SC meetings to support handover processes and job transition - BUT each group only gets one vote 
            * Expectation that people are thoughtful about optimising what is best for the delivery or working group, and that they will be thoughtful about who joins the Steering Committee meetings 
* [Postponed til next meeting] Discussion of Guiding Principles, based on [https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/projects/10/views/1?pane=issue\&itemId=116858503\&issue=the-turing-way%7Cgovernance%7C34](https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/projects/10/views/1?pane=issue\&itemId=116858503\&issue=the-turing-way%7Cgovernance%7C34)
    * Line 377 in [https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-governance-review-august25](https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-governance-review-august25)
* Anything else? 
