# 26-11-2025

## Attending:
* Kirstie
* Lelle
* Emma
* Liz
* Arielle
* Jim
* Sara
* Precious

### Apologies:
* Batool

## Agenda
1. Community Forum 
2. 2026 Workplan 
3. Code of Conduct
4. GitHub Access

## Actions & Decisions 
* DECISION: Keep two steering committee meetings month through to June, revisit in July when handovers
* DECISION: Timing of Collaboration Cafe is an appropriate decision for the Community Management working group to handle - they will do the acitons below and then escalate to the Steering Committe if needed for a final decision
* ACTION: Sara Villa & Léllé to open a GH Discussion asking the community to feedback on this proposal and to make TTW zoom links ;)  And bring up to Community Forum - use that as a deadline for making a decision
* ACTION: Arielle to ask in the maintenance group for a chair for community forum
* ACTION: SC to invite one person each to come to the community forum
* ACTION: Malvika to draft email to send as an update on the GitHub policy, Liz and Kirstie to review, 

## Notes

* End of year is a good time to reflect on what we have done, how we want to work in the future
  * Cadence of meetings
  * Attend collaboration cafés more regularly? 
  * Like the twice a month cadence for now (see Actions & Decisions) 
  * Mix of discussion (more private topics in committee meeting) and co-working (taking place at the Collab Cafe)
* Targets
  * Getting PRs merged! 
  * Arielle has put in a reminder in the Calendar for Steering Committee election - Proposed month is July.
  * Time for Collaboration Cafe: suggest to move it to 2-4pm UK time, twice a month, first and third wednesdays.
    * Does it work across board? 
      * Possibility to rotate times? Risk of splitting the community (say between Europe and Americas)
      * See Actions & Decisions
* Community Forum
  * Make sure we include a slide on thanking the SSI!
  * Community discussion: 
    * Quiz on the Turing Way for 2025?
    * Highlights for 2025 (could be a contribution, Fireside Chat, PR merged etc) , and hopes/plans for 2026 
* Event management process: Zoom registration works!!! Idea to post on the GH discussion I opened, and to work on for now:
  * Keep TTW WGs meeting in the public calendar as they are with their respective framapads (we can use TTW zoom account if groups want to- access to keybase is in gov channel and that should work)
  * Collab cafes on the public calendar as well- run in TTW zoom account and whoever hosts can claim host rights to enable waiting room
* Other 'big events': Fireside chats/Community forums etc- We will set TTW zoom registration links, and post this link on the calendar holder in the public calendar. Whoever hosts those events will claim host rights and/or make sure that someone with access to TTW zoom is present.
  * What information do we want to have in the registration link? Name, email, affiliation, location
  * Set send reminder automatically if possible or if not to documentation process
  * Edit the subject: save the email or add to your calendar DONE
* GitHub Access Reflection
  * Needed better messaging - had a lot of panicked messages about the notices that are automatically sent by GitHub
  * Run GitHub training about new workflow 
  * Need a separate email to explain what is happening separate from the newsletter 
  * Learnings: trial beforehand to understand the messaging, do some more comms before and after
* Also... need to consider AI policy 
