# 09-07-2025

## Check in

### Attending

*  Kirstie
*  Jim
*  Liz
* Arielle
* Emma

### Apologies

* Malvika
* Batool

## Agenda

**Today:**

* We will discuss 1. Voting process, 2. Maintenance Level Decision Making, provided in this Framapad: [https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-governance-review-june25](https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-governance-review-june25)

## Notes

* Discussions on the best ways to solict items for decisions needed from the Steering Committee - want to balance variation in repos, with maybe needing specific kinds of information to make decisions
* **ACTION**: Secretary to set up public project board to collect decision items tagged for the Steering Committee
* Discussions on how to balance voting and inputs from community members - how are we transparent without being confusing? How does this work with synchronous vs asynchronous voting? 
* Suggestions:
    * Minimise abstain votes - change to "recuse" - use sparingly and be transparent about why someone has not voted - Arielle has stronng views on this! 
    * Where do we vote? In a new github issue that is separate to the one used for community input? 
        * We may want to keep everything together by using one issue and providing an update on the committee meeting
    * Define quorum - The minimum number or proportion of people necessary for a vote and the minimum number of people in a meeting that is making decisions
    * Only have one system for voting (whether synchronous or not)
        * Using issues/emoji would be public, which may be advantageous but some will prefer individual votes to be private
*  We discussed the process for "reassign" - does this need to be an initial step?
    * "Reassign" may not be the best name. The point is to return these items to the community and empower them to make a decission
*  Importance of consensus - probably the transparency about the level of consensus is the most important thing! We want to allow for dissent! 
*  Agreement that only one voting modality should be used for a single decision
    * Less clear whether we should use one modality for *all* decisions
    * We could use both modalities for different decisions, but never mix them
    * Alternatively we could only have one, for all decisions
* Asynchronous voting - issue is chasing down votes - what if we aim asynchronous voting but with a deadline of the meeting - everyone has to have put their emoji vote in the issue by the **end of the meeting**
    * Some decisions may need to be made before the next meeting. For example, a decision about applying for funding. In those cases we could use the same voting system, but set a deadline earlier than the next meeting
* Where is voting,
    * Would be good to keep voting close to the issue
    * Could vote with emoji on the issue, or on a comment for steering committee voting
        * Feeling is a voting comment at the tail of the issue comments is a good idea
        * Leaves the top-level issue open for the community to react to and give feedback
        * Easier to split steering committee votes from others
        * Voting comment can be edited to include the final result
* QUORUM - we need it!
    * Quorum of voters, not of people in the "last meeting" before voting closes
    * Common proportions are simple majority (50% + 1) or 2/3
        * 8 committee voters (Anne + Liz share a vote for accessibility)
        * 2/3 would need 6/8
        * Simple majority would be 5/8
    * Quorum - simple majority
    * Approval threshold - simple majority
    * We agreed to go with simple majority for quorum and approval threshold - to focus on empowering the community members to move forward 
