# 25-06-2025

## Check In

### Attending

* Liz
* Kirstie
* Jim
* Malvika
* Batool
* Anne (joining later)
* Emma (joining later)

### Apologies

* Léllé
* Arielle (can't make it!)

## Agenda

Agenda is provided here for until September: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/34](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/issues/34)

**Today:**

* We will discuss 1. Voting process, 2. Maintenance Level Decision Making, provided in this Framapad: [https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-governance-review-june25](https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/turing-way-governance-review-june25)
* We will also trial what Working Group deep dive looks like

**AOB:**

- Authorship on other community's paper vs authorship on Turing Way facilitated paper
- Community Forum date for September and discussion on Steering Committee hosting it (or not!)

## Notes

* Reviewing the Framapad
    * Agenda setting
        * How is the agenda made?
            * Circulate "blank" agenda before meetings, for people to add items
            * We want to make this clear/transparent. Possibly created in GitHub
        * What are the items?
            * An AOB item would be good to let members raise items
            * Broad agreement that a process of WG/DG pushing issues up to the steering committee is valuable, or at least WG/DGs must be able to put items on the agenda
            * Need to keep a check on what items get lost or don't fit in any WG/DGs remit
        * Informal votes
            * Do we agree that we should aim to minimise the decisions made by the steering committee - Yes (empowering working group and community levels)
        * Potential problem - If we rely on WG/DGs to bring most/all of the items, is there a risk of a group taking actions that should have steering committee oversight without informing them?
            * Feeling this is unlikely, given we are a close community and there are ties between the steering committee and WG/DGs through representatives
            * More likely problem is it being common for items which the steering committee simply hands bad, community members being timid or not feeling confident/empowered to take decisions
        * Can items be explicit asks for information/advise as well as requests for decisions?
            * For example, asking whether a WG has permission to take some decision independently
            * General advise
            * Feeling is this would be a useful function of the steering committee
    * Meeting frequency
        * There could be problems caused by the timing/frequency of WG and steering committee meetings. For example, the book dash working group has a meeting the week after a steering committee meeting, and has an important question/action that needs the attention of the steering committee
    * Decision timeliness
        * We need to ensure the steering committee takes decisions without a reasonable time frame
        * Also want to avoid making decisions ad-hoc. Ensuring we maintain a strategic vision
        * Proposal:
            * WG/DGs bring proposals and questions to steering committee
            * Steering committee responds, with either:
                * Decision - the steering committee makes a decision for (?) the WG/DG
                * Advise/response - the steering committee gives it's input, but hands the responsibility to make a decision back to the WG/DG
* Aside - Funding/finances
    * Who makes decisions about funding and finances?
    * One idea, a WG wants to apply for funding, the funding WG makes a decision on whether they are allowed to.
    * We should be clear about our capacity to help with funding. We are unlikely to have the bandwidth to assess/manage funding for WG/DGs
    * Fundraising WG
        * There isn't one - we have channel
        * We are expecting the channel to be used when there are funding calls and people can organise themselves there
        * We don't have a chair, but MS and ABL are monitoring channel and also actively applying for funding, info for which have been shared there
* Voting process
    * One option would be putting requests and the decision process and outcomes into a repo, using issues
        * Pros:
            * Transparent
            * Accountable
            * Could unify across levels, same process at every level, issues could move between levels are required
        * Cons:
            * Public nature could discourage people, or bias the process towards more confident/louder people
            * Some decisions might require privacy (e.g. including personal data, or discussions that might upset people or cause problems for them). Will we need a private process anyway?
    * Things we value and want in our process:
        * Asynchronous discussions
        * In a public (or public as possible) place
        * With good accessibility (what is "good"?)
        * Not discouraging people from participating
        * Ensure (particularly newer) community members express their opinion and don't follow the majority or someone they look up to
* Outputs:
    * Steering committee will aim to make as few decisions as possible - Agreed
    * Items for steering committee meetings will be raised by DG/WGs - Agreed
