# 14-01-2026

## Attending: 
* Arielle
* Kirstie
* Emma
* Malvika
* Jim
* Léllé
* Liz

### Apologies


## Icebreaker: what's one hope you have for 2026?
* Malvika: be better at time management (at every aspects of my work/life) so that I have better allocated time to be intentionally - with family. Friends, and also the community towards personal maintenance and sustainability. Also, feel at home in Memphis.
  * Pick up the half read books too.
* Léllé: my 2026 resolution is to get started on my 2020, 2021, 2022 etc resolutions
* Arielle: take 3 classes in different subjects this year - loveeee that! 
  * Also year of ice cream: 
* Emma: Finish Couch to 5K this time!
* Jim: Cycle the King Alfred's Way
* Kirstie: Run events following standard proceedures rather than having every single one be this last minute bespoke planning exercise!

## Agenda
1. Dates for community forums for 2026
2. Steering Committee Priorities for 2026
  1. Confirm dates of elections
3. Fiscal Hosting 
4. Code of Conduct Committee

## Actions & Decisions
* DECISION: dates agreed for Community Forums 
* ACTION: Arielle to set up issues for community forums 
* ACTION: Emma to volunteer to lead & chair a community forum 
* ACTION: Léllé to open discussion on fireside chats on behalf of CMWG 
* DECISION: timeline agreed for the Steering Committee elections
* DECISION: CoC deep dive next meeting
  * ACTION: Malvika to lead the discussion on CoC next meeting 

## Notes 

* Need for a single point of truth for structures of the project 
* Dates for community forums for 2026
  * 5 in 2025 was feb, april, june, sep, dec
  * Also need to decide how many we want to commit to
  * 4 per year, on a quarterly cadence is popular
  * Day of week?
    * Thursdays
  * Time of day?
    * Trying to maximise attendance
    * Afternoon Europe/Morning US has worked well previously. Difficult to include West Coast US
* Decision: 3 at 6AM West Coast/2pm UK time, 1 at 8AM/9AM West Coast (~14:00 and ~16:00/17:00 UK depending on daylight saving)
* Months: March, June, Sep, Dec
* Also a bookdash in May. Could clash with shareouts
* Final dates and times agreed
  * _19th February (fairly soon, also larger step between first two)?_
  * 12th March 2pm UK / 6am West Coast US
  * 25th June 5pm UK / 9am West Coast - trial later time for West Coast US, 
  * 24th September 2pm UK / 6am West Coast US 
  * 10th December 2pm UK / 6am West Coast US
* Coordinating with Fireside Chats
  * Could be between community forums
  * April, July, August, October best months for Fireside Chats, but there's flex if people really want to run one!
  * CMWG plan to all community members to propose a Fireside chat they will host
  * The working group can then accept and support that community member
* Open a discussion and promote the opportunity for community members to host a fireside chat, present the dates as slots people can take
  * Encourage people to suggest ideas, start a discussion: CMWG
* Suggest community members nominate others in the community they would like to hear from
* 2025 Steering Committee Elections
  * Voting schedule
  * Last year the process ran in June/July, with one week of voting time
  * Yani helped collect the votes and give back results
  * Only nominating for "elect" positions this year
    * Perhaps we want a process for "elects" to confirm that they will continue
    * If they do not want to continue, the corresponding position (chair, secretary) is also open for nominations
  * Plan for **handover** on 1st July
    * _Voting should be completed earlier_
  * Community forum in June could be an opportunity to announce the results or welcome, introduce the steering committee, particularly new members
  * People eligible for positions are leads of working groups and delivery groups
  * **Timeline**
  * March/April preliminary understanding of who will stand (risk that few people put themselves forward)
  * 1st week of June voting
  * 2nd/3rd week of June returning officer counts votes and returns result
  * 25th June announcement at Community Forum

* Steering Committee Priorities 2026
1. Steering Committee + Community-wide: Code of conduct
  * Issues here: https://github.com/the-turing-way/.github/issues
  * Committee
  * Contacts Carpentries, OLS
    * Building solidarity, beyond a personal basis
  * Update CoC, share common CoC across our repos/events
  * Sustainability planning
    * Bringing CoC and sustainability together, building strong relationships with other organisations (Jupyter, Carpentries...)
    * Using this shared challenges as a way to work together
2. Community Management and Infrastructure WG? (Jim: I'm not sure it is the responsibility of these groups exactly, but it might be): Writing down decisions and structure
  * Levels, teams
  * Membership, responsibilities, clear accountability, GitHub Access
  * Related to disconnected, sometimes contractictory information in the book (is updating this a SC responsibility?)
  * Review where we are with the WG resources that we reviewed last year and embed these guidance on that
3. Sustainability WG: Fiscal hosting / infrastructure for TTW to receive its own funding (otherwise we are very limited)
  * Being Fiscally hosted requires high level of responsibility - Paid person full or part time?
  * Arielle raised interest to have The Turing Way be fiscally hosted project
  * Options exist to partner with existing orgs that are fiscally hosted - like RCM Coop
  * Have multi-org model for sustainability- like specific support coming from specific areas
  * There is a hybrid model where can both have a place to receive funding and build multi-org support structure
  * Let's explore this in 1-2 meetings in the future.
4. Roadmap: What is the purpose of The Turing Way. Where are we going medium/long term
* Could that be a theme of the Fireside Chat series this year?
  * Themes:
    * What does The Turing Way mean to you?
    * How have you contributed to the community?
    * How does it help you?
