# Notes 5 February 2024

## Attendees

* Batool
* Emma
* Gabin
* Ale
* Bastian
* Esther

## Topics/Rooms

* Localisation Room
* Emma and Jen catch up room
* Google summer of code: main room
* 5 year TTW Celebration: main room
* Book Dash stuff
* If there is time left: CHAOSS badging - should we try this out for The Turing Way or do we need a discussion on where we stand on badging for DEI? [https://chaoss.community/chaoss-dei-project-badging/](https://chaoss.community/chaoss-dei-project-badging/)

## Notes

* **TTW 5-year celebration: what does it mean for us? **
    * What can we do to create memorable moment for the community?
    * Do we want something big or small
* Collaboration Workshop
    * Budget for dinner
    * Budget for some folks to travel
    * Plans for what will be happening
* Swag/Merch?
    * What could be 5 years Merch
* Hosting The Turing Way collaborations
    * Bring people together
    * Tell us where they want the project to go
    * Future plan
* Show and tell focused on Turing Way contributions as well
* Sponsoring dinner, sending stickers
* raising money?
* How does the future of contributors look like
    * How can the Turing Way adopt its structure to support the next generation of contributors
* Mozilla Global sprint: Distributed Hackathon [https://github.com/mozilla/global-sprint](https://github.com/mozilla/global-sprint)
    * November Book Dash week: Budget
    * Following an open call of open data or open access week? [https://opendataday.org/](https://opendataday.org/)
    * Organise sprints before the Book Dash: Use a local/global sprint day as a way to recruit people for the November Book Dash?
* **What we need:**
    * A date
    * A theme
    * A web page where all events will be listed
    * Possible ideas for what folks can do without directing too much
    * Budget to sponsor food
    * Someone/group to coordinate/communicate/support: the birthday celebration committee
* **The Turing Global Sprint committee: Anniversary Edition**
    * Overhead: 
        * People apply and say that they want to host local sprint
        * A global room to facilitate sync up
        * Stickers: Limited edition stickers
    * Loop in Book Dash committee
* **GSoC idea 1: Prototype website: **
    * who is maintaining this in the long term and keep it usable
    * Why website and not a book:
        * Archiving old events 
        * Listing projects
        * Spotlighting community members
    * Foreword instead of website
        * But also a dynamic moving news and updates page (so it is not booky)
    * Question for the Infra group
        * What can we do with the existing book to avoid having a separate website
        * Is there a more compelling reason for having a website?
- Planning on the E\&S event (

* Book Dash: Anne and Ale should be there as we are doing lots of operational support