# Notes 10 June 2024

## Attendees 

* Sophia 
* Gabin
* Alexandra
* Bastian
* Cass
* Chris

## Apologies:

* Folks traveling to CZI 
* Kirstie,  Malvika, Emma, Anne 

## Topics/Rooms

* Reviewing PR: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/pull/3751/files](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/pull/3751/files) 
* Complete  BookDash work
*  Co-writing Case Studies Framework - Book Dash 
* RCM chapter updates and reviews
* Catch up and async share out of Book Dash work


## Notes

* Cass - reviewed comments and liaised with RCM team to schedule time close off open [issue]([https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3682)](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3682)) 
* Ale  - tackling emails and working with the technical writer 
* Gabin  - Planning the structure and split the chapter into 2 parts. 1 working on the RAM and RCM, and the 2nd being a case study. 
* Chris  - caught up on work that was done last week on TTW content, and published an asycn shareout to the Slack channel ([https://theturingway.slack.com/archives/C072PBHM2VC/p1718015335156829)](https://theturingway.slack.com/archives/C072PBHM2VC/p1718015335156829)) and Issue [https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3683](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3683) 
* Carrying across content that was written for the AutSPACEs website (front end text) 
* Q: how has Bastian and the team found the process of making AutSPACEs ready for the public? (and ready for deployment) 
   * data protection, ethics (for research), and technical checks have been given so that's the deciding piece.