# Notes 22 January 2024

## Attendees

* Kirstie W
* Anne
* Malvika
* Gabin
* Sophia
* Bastian
* Ale
* Emma
* Jen
* Chris

## Topics/Rooms

* Main room
   * Setting up the Infra WG for their work in GitHub org: [https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVN41KSE0=/](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVN41KSE0=/) 
   * If time allows: 
       * OpenUK and AI-UK: organising ourselves
       * Community Calls: happening soon - finalising agenda!
       * Code of Conduct
* Inclusive Events/PPIE Chapter
* FAIR TEA platform
* Data Governance for ML Chapter
   * New issue! [https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3494](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3494)
* DCE community infrastructure


## Notes

* What authority should a WG chairs/lead have?
   * Should not need to design org level proposal - need to come from the team
   * Once the proposal is designed and approved by the delivery team, they should go ahead independently with transparently sharing what is happening
   * **They are blocked** from making decision that need to come from the team
   * Giving WGs authority:
       * to design their WG repo as long as they are aligned with CoC
       * agency/autonomy in leading their WG - how?
       * Reporting the updates
       * Onboarding new members
       * Training their team members
   * Transparency of their work
       * How they can allow others to see their work
       * How they welcome people
       * A chapter in the Community Handbook
       * Use of issue/discussion on main repo (how?)
       * README, landing page (both in book and .github)
       * A WG template should nudge for that
   * Who from the delivery team members are in the room?
       * Infra: Ale
       * Accessibility: Anne
       * Need to document 'steps' of autonomy from incubation, to agency
       * Can we field support from other TPS staff members
           * Should be an open role for the community and we can nudget TPS member too (as a community member and not a Turing staff)
       * What are some roles in the WG
           * Chair of WG meetings
               * Transparency 
               * Liaison to delivery team and steering council
           * Information manager
               * Maintaining WG repo
           * Onborading and WG development
       * Actions:
           * Anne to ask WGs to fill four areas of decision making and different roles that exist for leads
           * Ale to build a roadmap for the repo transition, share that with Anne for inputs - bring to the project management team for approval
* Inclusive Events Chapter Room:
   * Trying to disentangle guidance for disabilities vs members of the public:
       * reading through and pulling out sections that are specific to members of the public but not relevant to people with disabilities. 
       * Working on getting to a point where we have 2 drafts for each chapter and then can take the drafts and make them work for the separate groups. 
       * Next Steps: scope out the division of labor
