
# The Turing Way - Community Forum 2024 - 15 February

## üó£Ô∏èWelcome!

*Bring along your tea, coffee, snack and questions about The Turing Way. And, while you wait for the event to start - please read more about the event in this document. üåª*

* Date: 15 February 2024
* Time: 15:00 - 16:30 - see time in your time zone: [https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2024-02-15/15:00/TTW%20Community%20Call](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2024-02-15/15:00/TTW%20Community%20Call)
    * *The Zoom's waiting room is enabled. The host will let you in!*
    * *All questions, comments, and recommendations are welcome on this Etherpad or on Zoom chat!*

* Please note that this call will be recorded
    * The video will be available on the YouTube channel in the next days: [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPDxZv5BMzAw0mPobCbMNuA](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPDxZv5BMzAw0mPobCbMNuA)
    * Turn on your webcam if you don‚Äôt mind sharing your face (or off if you do!)
* Reminder:
    * Code of conduct: [https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coc.html](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coc.html)
    * If you experience or witness unacceptable behaviour, or have any other concerns, please report it by contacting the project members (turingway@gmail.com).
    * To report an issue at this event involving one of the organisers, please email one of the members individually (kwhitaker@turing.ac.uk, msharan@turing.ac.uk)
    * You can also reach out to our Code of Conduct reporting facilitators Anne Lee Steele (asteele@turing.ac.uk) and Alexandra Araujo Alvarez (aaraujo.alvarez@turing.ac.uk).
* We have enabled the closed caption (live transcription), please click on 'cc' at the bottom of your Zoom screen


## Agenda:

* **Opening and welcome**: Anne (5 min): [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QOS\_6F7akdc0sBCJBEeJcnVQX9oOP\_6j/edit#slide=id.g2a5804106b1\_0\_0](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QOS\_6F7akdc0sBCJBEeJcnVQX9oOP\_6j/edit#slide=id.g2a5804106b1\_0\_0)
* Accessibility Working Group (5 min): [https://lizharedogs.github.io/ttwAccessibilityWorkingGroup/#1](https://lizharedogs.github.io/ttwAccessibilityWorkingGroup/#1)
* Translation and Localisation Working Group (5 min): [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l0WozIGeSrctG4DV3xXdmCCFpUQ7xz4zQmKjuJaJgX8/edit#slide=id.g2b906e5b7a7\_0\_732](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l0WozIGeSrctG4DV3xXdmCCFpUQ7xz4zQmKjuJaJgX8/edit#slide=id.g2b906e5b7a7\_0\_732)
* Book Dash working group (5 min): [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1P6WhXCyBK4fIO5gjGiSz71hB1m1bqstMDDwxRomZDZo/edit?usp=sharing]([]https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1P6WhXCyBK4fIO5gjGiSz71hB1m1bqstMDDwxRomZDZo/edit?usp=sharing[])
* Q\&A from the Community - Chairs of WG reply to the questions
* Break
* The Turing Way: Governance and Transparency: Kirstie (10 min)
* Q\&A from the Community - Governance and general
* 5th Year Birthday celebration remarks by Malvika: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QOS\_6F7akdc0sBCJBEeJcnVQX9oOP\_6j/edit#slide=id.g2a5804106b1\_0\_0](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QOS\_6F7akdc0sBCJBEeJcnVQX9oOP\_6j/edit#slide=id.g2a5804106b1\_0\_0)
    * Celebration: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3518](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/issues/3518)
* Closing

## üëã Icebreaker

*(Getting to know each other and this Etherpad for collaborative notes)*

Name / Organisation and location you are joining from / Social media (if you'd like to connect with others) / **What's your favourite open source community (aside from The Turing Way, of course!üòâ)?**

* Anne / The Alan Turing Institute / @aleesteele + @turingway / It's hard to pick one apart from TTW! I look up to and towards many of our close allies in the open science ecosystem: from Metadocencia, JupyterBook, Carpentries). But also, vvvvvaria for their work on collective action, processing foundation \& p5.js ha, and the m√©dialab at SciencePo for their creativity \& interdisciplinarity. And of course, OpenStreetMap \& Frictionless! (See how hard it is to choose?!)
*  Kirstie / The Alan Turing Institute / London, UK / meeep - Kirstie Whitaker on linkedin at the moment? idk what to do with my life without twitter of old! / I have always been inspired by the Jupyter community - a hike in the northern california hills with Fernando Perez was the start of my open source career!
*  Sarah Gibson / 2i2c  / Northants, UK / / I am far too biased to answer that question üòÜ
*  Dawn Foster / CHAOSS Project / Calling in from London from the British Library's Member Room / The CHAOSS project is my favorite open source community, and OpenUK is my favorite open technology community - see how I'm gaming the system by not picking one :)
*  Malvika Saran / The Alan Turing Institute
*  Arielle Bennett / The Alan Turing Institute / (either @Arielle-Bennett or @Arielle-BL on GitHub) but joining from sunny Boston / I like OpenStreetMap, Obsidian and honestly, the Turing Way
*  Jim Madge / The Alan Turing Institute / @JimMadge (GitHub) @JimMadge@fosstodon.org / Ansible
*  Melissa / MetaDocencia, Brazil / Does Framasoft count? Their set of tools is a nice alternative setup to support collaborative work!
*  Lucy / Polar Data Centre, British Antarctic Survey / /
*  Alexandra / The Alan Turing Institute / @AlexandraAAJ (Github) / The Turing Way
*  Danny Garside / London / *mastodon: social.coop/@da5nsy* / [logseq]([https://github.com/logseq/logseq)](https://github.com/logseq/logseq))
* Richard Acton / Babraham Insitiute, cambridge / nixos / fosstodon.org/@richardjacton
*  Emma Karoune/ The Alan Turing Institute /
*  Anna / The Alan Turing Institute / the gFoss community, in particular the Grass GIS project within OSgeo
* Liz, also miss Twitter @LizHareDogs on GitHub;can't choose one community-- ManyDogs Project, rOpenSci

## üì£ Updates from the project

*Please take any notes, leave comments and ask question below*

### Notes from the presentations

* Translation  and Localisation Working Group
* Book Dash Working Group (Book Dash dates released: 3-7 June 2024)
    * Apply to a local hub: [https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeSF74bw-ucrG\_LbRDnP-PGwjDJ28pv6zyJ\_c7bgSGWDSZAew/viewform](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeSF74bw-ucrG\_LbRDnP-PGwjDJ28pv6zyJ\_c7bgSGWDSZAew/viewform)
    * Apply to be part of the planning committee: [https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeToJI6xUTXhMaKjPwqaCvvjBaJAzd0kjIazkOVSHxKUbh6Yg/viewform](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeToJI6xUTXhMaKjPwqaCvvjBaJAzd0kjIazkOVSHxKUbh6Yg/viewform)
* Accessibility Working Group
* Kirstie - Transparency and Decision-making in The Turing Way
    * Three levels: Community, Maintainers, Constitutional
    * Clear pathways to join working groups, and representation from WGs at leadership
*  Malvika - 5 year anniversary!

### Comments and questions

* Separating the Book Dash planning from the continuity work sounds like an excellent idea! Helps avoid burn out and gives a good way to get into the WG.
* For T\&L team: What has been the biggest challenge with onboarding the group?
    * The question is usually: Where do I start? We start with simple tasks: the forward at the beginning and end of the book. Then we move on to more complex tasks.
* For T\&L: If other working groups want to adopt your governance, what should they do in order to work in a decentralised way?
    * We communicate openly and will be discussing governance modes that work for this decentralised structure. Probably not a very strict voting system.
* How has working in a Working Group changed the way you engage with the project?
    * LH/Accessibility WG: I have worked on 3 Book Dashes so far.
    * AB/Book Dash WG: It feels empowering to be working with a group in an ongoing way. Iterating an event over time, you need a consistent group for. I'm excited to improve the format of the Book Dash.
* The Turing Way can become an example of demonstrating how we think things should be. Have you thought or planned for what support or policy can help with this? Have you thought about how the working groups can help with this process?
    * LH/Accessibility WG: I invite anyone to participate in the WG. Even if you think you don't know, you can learn and that learning can help everyone. I would hope that accessibility touches everything, so I would hope that if the infrastructure WG had questions about accessibility that they could ask us. I think we will try to make community aware as we get the guide in writing to make the community aware of what aspects are relevant for them.
* It might be interesting to adopt a metadata standard for embedding alt text into the image metadata as well as including it in the text of the book see: [https://www.iptc.org/standards/photo-metadata/iptc-standard/](https://www.iptc.org/standards/photo-metadata/iptc-standard/) where they have an alt text field, that way alt text can 'follow the image around' if it is copies to other places. I don't know if support fo this exists in any screen reading software yet.
* Request for Comments
    * Q: Is there a reason for usin the term 'Strategic' over 'Constituional'? Constitutional implies a narrow set of core rules almost, which is slightly different from setting a broad direction for a project.
    * A: Thanks Richard Acton - there's something that I don't love about strategic because I think it implies that the others are not strategic.... but worth discussing :)
Would be good to have like a word cloud exercise to bring through different potential words
    * Q: Is the vote of the WG chairs vote equal to the vote of leads?  Do they act in more of an advisory role?
    * A: That hasn't been decided. But my feeling is that we're identifying the types of decisions that need to be made is the first exercise of 'should it be a vote' or 'should it be 'advisory'. One of those is the the role of the budget... As Program Director, this changes certain decisions. We want to explore and see what decisions come up. There are lots of things that are open. There are some things we can vote on, there are many things we can't. That's a big exploration space.
    * Q: Question for the working groups: What kind of support would you like for the working groups? They aim to be as autonomous as possible, what kind of support would you like from Anne (Research Community Manager) and myself (Research Project Manager)?
    * A: The working groups
        * Melissa for Localisation: you have been supporting us so well! Sharing our coworking call invitations, reminding us of interesting events to attend, and offering a ton of help to participate in all these activities. If you have resources or experience on governance and decision-making to share, we would definitely welcome it.
        * Jim for Infrastructure: Without Alex and Anne, the working groups wouldn't exist. Having someone to help keep track of things removes a barrier because then we don't have to be so organised and we can bring our knowledge/skill. It feels less of a burden or commitment. +1+1
        * Kirstie: That's one of the reason why we have the Turing Institute paying people to do it. Bringing volunteers in, and having people use their time that they need their points on, and I'm glad your answer shows something we are already doing!
* KW: There's a difference between the person that takes the notes, and archive it. They create an environment where you can take decisions. It's a powerful way of informing myself \& Malvika and others in the project. As we start to formalise these decisions under a request for comment, we'll figure out. You can put a request up to discuss this at the constitutional level, or saying that it shouldn't be 'us' making this decision... They are powerful ways of bringing people in and demonstrating how we work.
*  What should we do for the 5 year anniversary:
    * Pin badges
    * Hoodies
    * Swag?
    * Limited edition stickers?
*  Next set of projects we can talk about:
    * Infrastructure
    * Practitioners Hub?
    * Communications WG - EoI

## Feedback

Pluses: What did you like from this call? Anything that stuck out for you?

* Everyone is doing incredible work!
* Generally positive vibes and energy on the call

Deltas: What can we improve for the next community call?

* We need to rehearse but there were many internet connection issues +1, lots of internet gremlins
* Change the name to "Open Community Call" to capture more attendees +1 - do we want to specifically highlight the governance aspects in the title?
* Invite individually other communities
* There was an issue with the zoom link - evaluate if we want to keep the registration link
    * Zoom link registration was a barrier
    * Create a permanent page
* Promotional video inviting people to come, from the working group
* Use Canva / canva templates to promote the call more visually
* Zoom permissions - now that one person creates the zoom registration link - others may not have access to registration information
* Do we need to restructure calls to have sections which are looking for more integrated discussion (like the governance) first when the energy is highest, followed by presentations?