
# The Turing Way - Community Forums 2025 - Date 19 September

GitHub link where notes from previous calls are archived: [https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/blob/main/community-forum/README.md](https://github.com/the-turing-way/governance/blob/main/community-forum/README.md)



## ğŸ—£ï¸Welcome!

*Bring along your tea, coffee, snack and questions about The Turing Way. And, while you wait for the event to start - please read more about the event in this document. ğŸŒ»*



   * Date: 19 September 2025
   * Time: 15:00 - 16:30 - see time in your time zone: [https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2025-04-17/15:00/](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2025-04-17/15:00/) <-- update this


   * Indicating your preference for 'Written' or 'Spoken' form of interaction today:
   * *- We will be using breakout rooms - so please add 'S' or 'W' before of your Zoom name (rename option) to indicate your preference for 'Spoken' or 'Written' form of interactions respectively!*


   * Please note that this call will be recorded
       * The video will be available on the YouTube channel in the next days: [https://www.youtube.com/theturingway](https://www.youtube.com/theturingway)
       * Turn on your webcam if you donâ€™t mind sharing your face (or off if you do!)
   * Reminder: 
       * Code of conduct: [https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coc.html](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coc.html)
       * If you experience or witness unacceptable behaviour, or have any other concerns, please report it by contacting the project members (theturingway@gmail.com).
       * To report an issue at this event involving one of the organisers, please email one of the members individually (kwhitaker@turing.ac.uk, svillahdez@gmail.com)
       * You can also reach out to our Code of Conduct reporting facilitators Anne Lee Steele (asteele@turing.ac.uk) and LÃ©llÃ© Demertzi (lelle@turing.ac.uk).
   * We have enabled the closed caption (live transcription), please click on 'cc' at the bottom of your Zoom screen


## Agenda:

Chair:  

   * 15:00 - 15:15: Opening and Welcome by today's Chair (10 min) <-- 5 mins for people to arrive then 5 mins norm setting
       * Slides: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OYrkiEWF918seJ33K9wm-6x3Ewi6KTI0/edit?slide=id.g2ce78f4d070\_1\_0#slide=id.g2ce78f4d070\_1\_07fb\_1\_25#slide=id.g336e53057fb\_1\_25](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OYrkiEWF918seJ33K9wm-6x3Ewi6KTI0/edit?slide=id.g2ce78f4d070\_1\_0#slide=id.g2ce78f4d070\_1\_07fb\_1\_25#slide=id.g336e53057fb\_1\_25)
   * 15:15 - 15:25: Breakout Discussion - GitHub teams and roles
   * 15:25 - 15:35: Maintenance level governance: Working Group report out
   * 15:35 - 15:45: Constitutional Level Steering Committee - Roadmap
   * 15:45 - 15:50: ğŸµbreak  
   * 15:50 - 16:15: Community Announcements
   * 16:15 - 16:30: Open Q\&A, AOB and Closing!
   * Closing (end of 90 mins)


Please note that any and all discussions on these topics can be continued in the future Collaboration CafÃ© on



## ğŸ‘‹ Icebreaker

*(Getting to know each other and this pad for collaborative notes)*

Name / Organisation and location you are joining from / What is one thing you'd like The Turing Way community to achieve/change within the next year? -  ([https://emojipedia.org/](https://emojipedia.org/), see also: [https://openmoji.org/)](https://openmoji.org/))

   *  Arielle / Turing joining from Boston MA / Steering Committee has completed its review of governance documentation! âœ¨
   *  Jim / Alan Turing Institute / Exeter / More community empowerment (working groups, gardeners)
   *  Sara/ London/ OLS/ Data Science for Health Equity/ RCM Cooperative/ I would love for the community to start running other types of work and welcome new fields into TTW
   *  Lelle / Turing / London / I would love to see the github gardening group taking winds +1!
   *  Sarah / TBD / Midlands, UK / 
   *  Batool / Liverpool / I would love to meet in person the TTW contributors Iâ€™ve only connected with online over the past few years.
   *  Pradeep / Paris / 
   *  Johanna Bayer (she /her) joining from the Netherlands/ Donders Institute, Community Management and Maintainer / a successful bookdash and a signifcant redcution in issues ;)
   * Kirstie Whitaker / Berkeley Institute for Data Science / Chapter of the week / month promotions on social media ğŸ˜œ - oh - and all the governance points that everyone else is sharing ğŸ˜
   * Richard J. Acton / Babraham Institute, Cambridge UK / 
   * Gamal Adel / Leiden University / Amsterdam / Guidelines for interaction and communication between organizations
   * Precious/DSWB, Nigeria/+1 for bookdash! It's multi-location!
   * Malvika Sharan / London this week / Oof funding/sustainability model - Might just step up and self-nominate myself for funding/sustainability WG (we have one informally!) +100!
   * Danny Garside / London / Enable multi-language support
   * Alexandra Araujo Alvarez / London / Survive, get funding to resume the in-person book dashes and international hubs
   * Liz, New York City, several orgs, all of the great goals above-- sustainability!


## Breakout Discussion - GitHub teams and roles

*In your rooms, please take turns sharing insights and report back on the following prompts to discuss regarding (*[https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/discussions/4357)](*https://github.com/orgs/the-turing-way/discussions/4357)*)



#### We are considering changing our norms around who has write access to the repositories :

   * how could this affect new contributors joining?   
   * What benefits do we see for both contributors and the community long term? 
   * What could the risks be? How could we tackle these?
   * How should we communicate this type of change? 


[https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40567468/give-permissions-on-project-folder-in-github](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40567468/give-permissions-on-project-folder-in-github)



#### helium

   * For new contributors, maybe not much change. If you are new, the current process is all you know
   * There will be edgecase people where loosing write access shortly after getting it will seem really jarring. Just learned one way of contributing only for it to change
   * Tangible benefits to maintenance
       * Easier to manage
       * More secure
       * More appropriate for the size we are, and the amount of dedicated support we have
   * More realistic/representative workflow. This should do a better job of teaching people how to contribute to other projects
   * We should make sure we explain the workflow. People might find working on their fork and making issues/PRs on the upstream repo confusing.




#### Beryllium

Arielle: support, because reflects open-source norms. But - we need to make sure we update our github training and onboarding to reflect.

Richard - agree with above

Precious - we might need to update the welcome bot- make sure we communicate the changes and WHY these changes are needed



Sarah Gibson: 

- administrative effect on this proposed change: we can share a form to contribute to TTW: GH handle, what do you want to work on/ decision to be made about where this person would sit on/ decide on security level access - end goal: to then have a specific team on GH 



#### Lithium

   * Would this change cause issues in the merge time or cause a backlog in merges, especially smaller, simpler edits?
       * The Gardening group will come in clutch in these kinds of edits
   * Maybe we can give access to a subforlder/chapters such that there are assigned editors for each module
       * [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40567468/give-permissions-on-project-folder-in-github](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40567468/give-permissions-on-project-folder-in-github)
       * Jim: "Codeowners is a really nice feature."
   * It's bad practice to merge your own PRs
       * But currently merging is the standard in TTW
   * Gamal shared this article with us: [https://thehackernews.com/2025/09/40-npm-packages-compromised-in-supply.html](https://thehackernews.com/2025/09/40-npm-packages-compromised-in-supply.html) 


Conversations about structure/responsibility like,

- chapter editors

- review team

Helps ensure work gets seen, looked at by people who can help.

Feels related to the access discussion. And we could use similar tools like teams, sub-teams, codeowners, project boards to help with this.

Would also be better for the reviewers. They can focus on helping with PRs relevant to them, rather than being responsible for *all* PRs



Q: Does this hinder participation. Can someone review a PR without permissions?

   * Anyone with read can make a review
   * However, required reviews must come from people with triage or above(?)
Q: Would we loose anything by having fewer people who can do the maintenance work of assigning labels/reviewers

   * Triage role could be useful here, permission to label/assign but not push to repo
Q: What would someone have to do to be granted permissions?



## Notes from Working Groups updates

   * Updates shared on Slidedeck
   * Book Dash: Second meeting. 2 in-person hubs in Netherlands and Aruba. Apply by 10-Oct. Happening from 10th to 14th of November. Need people to volunteer to chair one of sessions
   * Translation and localisation: Next onboarding on 15th - Joining the book dash
   * Accessibility: Compatibility time zones for meetings - Screen reader accessibility - People with lived experience contributing to the accessibility guides - Let them know if any come across funding opportunities for accesibility
   * Infrastructure: New all-contributor maintainers - GH Gardening
   * Community Management: GH Gardners is a merge of the community management and infrastructure - Still figuring out some of the technical details. Sara Villa is joining as Co-Chair -  Gerdeners/maintainers needed. Join #github-gardeners.
   * Data Science Without Borders - Please review book dash specifically the PRs
   * JupyterHub DEI: Report launched! voicesofjupyterhub - need to help make the governance findings more actionable


#### Comments and questions 

   * Precious O: "I think an extra consideration might be designated reviewers, so contributors can know exactly who to tag, and then the task is not left open for an undesignated time."
   * Top level team for reviewers and subteams can be more focused 
   * 

   * 





## Notes from Constitution Level Update


